---
title: "7 Unexpected Things To Do in Calhoun, Georgia"
image: /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/flower-garden-calhoun-ga.webp
featured: true
category: Georgia
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: Red barns, grazing cattle, weathered downtown buildings that have stood the test of time.
last-updated: 2025-04-08
---

What do you think of when you picture a country town? Red barns, grazing cattle,
weathered downtown buildings that have stood the test of time?

It’s some of what you'll find in Calhoun, 70 miles northwest of Atlanta and
conveniently right off I-75, but there’s so much more for travelers to uncover —
including a Colosseum. If you know where to look, Gordon County's biggest city
(population: 15,000) has unexpected treasures you won’t find anywhere else.

## Pet Alpacas at K&T Farms

Start your adventure at a local alpaca farm. These herd animals hail from Peru,
but the Georgia climate agrees with them just fine. Though they’re usually
skittish, the ones at [K&T Farms](https://www.kandtfarms.com/) are friendly. In
fact, they’ll eat right out of your hand.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Alpacas at K&T Farms in Rydal, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>
“That’s because they’re only fed when people come to visit,” explains Jenna
Cain, who started offering farm tours in 2017. The two-hour tours, held Monday
through Saturday, include a hayride down to the creek, a stop to see the
miniature pigs and, the highlight, meeting the alpacas. Cain includes a cup of
feed for every guest, so you’re guaranteed some personalized alpaca attention.

“It’s beautiful out here,” she says. “I didn’t think I would enjoy it as much as
I do.”

Her family moved to the farm in 1994. The 60-acre tract used to be part of a
larger farm that raised buffalo. Now it’s home to cows, horses, pigs, dogs, a
miniature donkey and 11 alpacas.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/more-alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/more-alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/more-alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/more-alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Alpacas at K&T Farms in Rydal, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

On your visit, you’ll also learn about the fascinating industry surrounding
alpaca fiber. Cain will tell you how fiber from young alpacas, called crias, is
as valuable as cashmere. It’s easy to believe when you pet the downy coats of
1-year-old alpaca twins Domino and Tinker Bell.

The farm store has the usual souvenirs (felted soap, dryer balls) and unusual
ones: nesting balls that look like giant furry heads, which you hang in your
yard so birds can make tiny, intricate nests from the hair. In winter, Cain can
barely keep alpaca socks in stock. “Alpaca fiber wicks the moisture away from
your skin, but it’s really warm and lightweight,” she says.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/even-more-alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/even-more-alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/even-more-alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/even-more-alpacas-at-kt-farms-in-rydal-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Alpacas at K&T Farms in Rydal, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

If you want to take it one step further and be part of the behind-the-scenes
process of making alpaca fiber, you can. Every April, Cain and a crew of
volunteers shear the alpacas, a unique experience worth referring to later with
friends — “that one time I sheared alpacas in Georgia.” Volunteers help corral
the animals in the barn and roll up the fur “like a sleeping bag,” Cain says,
after it comes off in one large blanket.

## Get Fresh Produce at Fox Farm

Get a taste of the season with a stop by [Fox
Farm](https://www.facebook.com/Fox-Farm-103025565300207/). It all starts with
strawberries in the spring and continues with tomatoes, squash, cucumbers,
zucchini, peaches, watermelon and more throughout the summer. Cooler weather
brings pumpkins, mums and fall veggies like collards and cabbage.

In December, Santa makes an appearance alongside rows of picture-perfect
Christmas trees awaiting their final home.

## See the Sunflowers at Copper Creek Farm

Your farm fun isn't over. On the other side of town, [Copper
Creek Farm](http://www.coppercreekfarm.com/) is open
seasonally for all the traditional kitschy entertainment: mechanical bull, cow
train, duck races. They have a corn maze in the fall along with a haunted barn
and pumpkin cannon, making it a popular destination for families.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/sunflowers-at-cooper-creek-farm-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/sunflowers-at-cooper-creek-farm-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/sunflowers-at-cooper-creek-farm-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/sunflowers-at-cooper-creek-farm-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Sunflowers at Cooper Creek Farm in Calhoun, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The stars of the show come out in summer, though, when a field of golden
sunflowers erupts into bloom. Their beauty is fleeting, here for only a few
weeks, but it's impressive while it lasts. As you wander among the stalks,
sunflower bulbs bending above your head, you’ll feel like you're in a storybook.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/more-sunflowers-at-cooper-creek-farm-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/more-sunflowers-at-cooper-creek-farm-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/more-sunflowers-at-cooper-creek-farm-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/more-sunflowers-at-cooper-creek-farm-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Sunflowers at Cooper Creek Farm in Calhoun, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

## Learn Cherokee History at the New Echota Historic Site

This state historic site marks the beginning of the Trail of Tears, often
discussed in history books but sometimes hard for kids to grasp. [New
Echota](https://gastateparks.org/NewEchota) makes it real with restored and
reconstructed buildings that show you the capital of the Cherokee nation as it
was in the early 1800s. There's a print shop, a courthouse, a store, barns and
more.

Check out the film and exhibits in the visitors’ center. Then set off to explore
the nature trails and historic sites. You can even go fishing.

## Experience a Miniature World at the Calhoun Rock Garden

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/calhoun-rock-garden-in-calhoun-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/calhoun-rock-garden-in-calhoun-ga-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/calhoun-rock-garden-in-calhoun-ga-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/calhoun-rock-garden-in-calhoun-ga-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="The Calhoun Rock Garden in
  Calhoun, GA" width="665" height="482" loading="lazy" />
<sub>Credit: Calhoun Seventh-day Adventist Church</sub>

As you head to the city center, take a detour for a very different outdoor
experience.

The [Calhoun Rock
Garden](https://maps.roadtrippers.com/?lng=-84.99913765361538&lat=34.46394997894316&z=12.792747267027648)
is easy to miss as you drive by. It’s tucked behind the Seventh-day Adventist
Church, not visible from the road. But walk down toward the creek and you’ll see
it — a sprawling village of castles, courtyards, bridges, and cathedrals.
They’re all just a few feet tall, cobbled together from pebbles, shells, and
bits of ceramic, supported by 14-gauge chicken wire and concrete.

There are around 50 structures in all. You’ll recognize Notre Dame, with its
stained glass and flying buttresses, and the Roman Colosseum. There’s the
blue-domed town of Bethlehem, Japan's Himeji Castle, and Camelot. Other
buildings include a monastery, a lighthouse, Dover Castle, the historic town of
Nottingham, and various parts of Paris.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/cathedral-in-calhoun-rock-garden-in-calhoun-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/cathedral-in-calhoun-rock-garden-in-calhoun-ga-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/cathedral-in-calhoun-rock-garden-in-calhoun-ga-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/cathedral-in-calhoun-rock-garden-in-calhoun-ga-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Cathedral at the Calhoun
  Rock Garden in Calhoun, GA" width="665" height="499" loading="lazy" />
<sub>Credit: Calhoun Seventh-day Adventist Church</sub>

Peer into some of the windows and you’ll even see tiny people and furniture
molded from clay.

It’s laid out in somewhat haphazard geography with small and sometimes obscure
handmade signs identifying the different pieces. The artist who created it,
DeWitt Boyd, or “Old Dog” as everyone calls him, started the Calhoun Rock Garden
as a hobby back in 2007. Since then, the Lilliputian village has spread across
nearly an acre of land. It’s maintained by volunteers who have also added a
gazebo, picnic tables, and flowers to the park.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/calhoun-rock-garden-entrance-in-calhoun-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/calhoun-rock-garden-entrance-in-calhoun-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/calhoun-rock-garden-entrance-in-calhoun-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/calhoun-rock-garden-entrance-in-calhoun-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Entrance to the Calhoun Rock Garden in Calhoun, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

This is folk art at its best. The garden is a veritable scavenger hunt for
details: engraved tile floors, a prayer room with names of couples who’ve been
married here. In one tiny building, I found a dog no larger than my thumb curled
up on a pillow.

If you’re in town in October, see if the annual illumination is happening.
Volunteers light lanterns and hang them on the posts above the walkways, and
visitors place hundreds of candles around the garden until the entire tiny
village is ablaze.

## Eat and Dance at the Bbq Boogie and Blues Festival

Here’s a quick tip. If you happen to be in town in Spring. It’s
held downtown for an annual weekend, and it’s the city’s biggest event. Usually
a springtime affair, the 9th annual [BBQ Boogie and Blues
Festival](https://bbqboogieblues.com/) was rescheduled to late September this
year.

It includes a barbecue competition sanctioned by the Kansas City Barbecue
Society, family-friendly entertainment, arts and crafts, live music, plenty of
food (of course) and more. Barbecue lovers can't miss the People’s Choice BBQ
Tasting on Saturday.

## Visit Downtown Calhoun

After communing with nature, you’ll be ready for city exploration. In Calhoun,
the hub is the downtown strip, five blocks along South Wall Street.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/downtown-calhoun-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/downtown-calhoun-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/downtown-calhoun-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-7-unexpected-things-to-do-in-calhoun-ga/downtown-calhoun-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Downtown Calhoun, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Stop into the [Harris Arts Center](https://harrisartscenter.com/) for a dash of
culture. The complex houses art galleries, a theater, an art market and a museum
honoring Gordon County native Roland Hayes, the first internationally famous
African-American concert singer and composer. In the free exhibit, you can hear
Hayes’ rich tenor as it must have belted out in 1921 at Buckingham Palace, one
of the many places he performed his signature classical spin on the folk songs
of his youth. Also downtown is plenty of small town shopping where you can pick
up a handmade gift or just browse the antiques and country-style decor.

By now you'll be hungry for dinner. Barbecue, burgers and baked beans are the
order of the day at most Calhoun eateries. Be sure to stop by [Christian and
Jake's Bistro](https://www.cjsbistro.com/) for authentic chicken salad or [Thatcher's
Barbeque and Grill](https://www.thatchersbbq.com/) for a pulled pork sandwich.
You can't go wrong.

To close out your evening, take in a show at the historic [GEM
Theatre](https://calhoungemtheatre.org/) just up the street. Opened in 1927, the
same year the first “talkie” film was released, the GEM now hosts a variety of
entertainment: plays, movies, a smattering of live comedy, concerts in a range
of genres. Some shows are nostalgic throwbacks; some are modern hits.

It's a performing arts hodgepodge that reflects the eclectic nature of Calhoun
itself, once a railroad stop and agricultural economy, now a place for
agritourism, art and culinary gems. It might be the only city in Georgia where
you can start the day hanging out with alpacas and end it savoring vegan
escargot and crème brûlée. Weird? Maybe. But definitely wonderful.
