---
title: A Couple's Travel Guide to Hershey and Harrisburg
image: /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/garden-hershey-pa.jpg
featured: true
category: Pennsylvania
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: Harrisburg, a quaint city on the Susquehanna River, pairs historic charm and scenic trails with nearby Hershey for a romantic getaway blending culture, cuisine, and nature.
---

A quiet city on the Susquehanna River, Harrisburg has fewer than 50,000
residents but plenty of charm, from historic architecture to scenic trails. Add
in Hershey, the nearby town of chocolate fame, and Pennsylvania's Hershey &
Harrisburg Region becomes the dream romantic getaway: culture, cuisine and
nature rolled into one.

Here's how to make the most of a couple's getaway in these neighboring cities.

## Discovering Harrisburg

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/state-capitol-in-harrisburb-pa-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/state-capitol-in-harrisburb-pa-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/state-capitol-in-harrisburb-pa-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/state-capitol-in-harrisburb-pa-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Capitol building in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania"
  width="665"
  height="450"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Start your trip at the capitol. It might sound like something for history buffs,
but the elegant beaux arts building feels like a palace. In fact, that was the
vision of the Renaissance architect who designed it: a "palace of art" with real
gold leaf, a grand marble staircase, stained glass windows and a magnificent
272-foot dome. Sign up for a tour so you don't miss the chambers of the Senate,
House and Supreme Court, lavishly gilded and accented with murals and
chandeliers. With everything free, it's the best deal in town.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/natural-bridge-state-park-in-harrisburg-pa-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/natural-bridge-state-park-in-harrisburg-pa-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/natural-bridge-state-park-in-harrisburg-pa-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/natural-bridge-state-park-in-harrisburg-pa-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Natural Bridge State Park in Harrisburg, PA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The rest of downtown is pleasantly walkable. Brick sidewalks lead to quaint
cafes and centuries-old churches and mansions. Browse a range of creative works
at the [Art Association of Harrisburg](http://www.artassocofhbg.com/).

If you head north a few blocks to midtown, you can take in the [Susquehanna Art
Museum](http://www.susquehannaartmuseum.org/), the 1860s [Broad Street
Market](https://www.broadstreetmarket.org/) and the [Midtown Scholar
Bookstore](https://www.midtownscholar.com/) with its lively events calendar,
including poetry readings, all within two blocks of each other. Nearby, [the
Millworks](https://millworksharrisburg.com/) combines fresh brews with eclectic
art in a hip yet historic venue.

Finish up the evening with a walk along the river. The trail passes several
bridges, gardens and public art, so bring your camera. If a stroll is too
low-key, tackle more of the 20-mile Capital Area Greenbelt on bike.

## A Taste of Hershey

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/butterflies-in-the-butterfly-atrium-in-hershey-gardens-at-hershey-pa-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/butterflies-in-the-butterfly-atrium-in-hershey-gardens-at-hershey-pa-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/butterflies-in-the-butterfly-atrium-in-hershey-gardens-at-hershey-pa-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/butterflies-in-the-butterfly-atrium-in-hershey-gardens-at-hershey-pa-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Butterflies in the Butterfly Atrium in Hershey Gardens at Hershey, PA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

What's more romantic than chocolate? Flowers, maybe? Hershey has both. Opened in
1937 as a rose garden, [Hershey Gardens](https://www.hersheygardens.org) has
grown into a 23-acre wonderland with an arboretum and a range of blooms,
beginning with spring tulips through fall chrysanthemums. Go in the morning
before the crowds arrive and when the weather is still cool. For year-round
color, the Butterfly Atrium recreates a tropical paradise.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/bears-playing-at-zooamerica-hershey-pa-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/bears-playing-at-zooamerica-hershey-pa-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/bears-playing-at-zooamerica-hershey-pa-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/bears-playing-at-zooamerica-hershey-pa-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Bears playing at ZooAmerica in Hershey, PA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

From there, head to [ZooAmerica](http://www.zooamerica.com), less than 5 minutes
away. It focuses on animals native to North America, so don't expect tigers or
elephants, but the elk are impressive and the bears are downright playful when
you catch them in the right mood.

Save the bulk of the day, though, for something sweeter. [Hershey's Chocolate
World](https://www.hersheys.com/chocolateworld/) is the Las Vegas of chocolate.
Admission is free, but you can get tickets for a few activities, like a trolley
tour around town or the behind-the-scenes Make Your Own Candy Bar. The best
might be the The Chocolate Tasting Experience — entertaining and eye-opening in
ways you wouldn't expect. And of course, the free chocolate ride is a must. You
learn about the chocolate creation process and get a little something to savor
on the way home.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/hersheys-chocolate-world-in-hershey-pa-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/hersheys-chocolate-world-in-hershey-pa-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/hersheys-chocolate-world-in-hershey-pa-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/hersheys-chocolate-world-in-hershey-pa-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Hershey Chocolate World in Hershey, PA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>


If you're not ready to let the chocolate and childlike wonder go quite yet, a
visit to the [The Hershey Story museum](https://hersheystory.org) is in order.
It explores the history of the company and the man behind it all, Milton
Hershey. To get more hands-on, you can opt for a chocolate-making class or an
around-the-world sampling of drinking chocolates.

## Lodging and Dining

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/hotel-indigo-harrisburg-hershey-in-hershey-pa-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/hotel-indigo-harrisburg-hershey-in-hershey-pa-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/hotel-indigo-harrisburg-hershey-in-hershey-pa-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/hotel-indigo-harrisburg-hershey-in-hershey-pa-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Hotel Indigo Harrisburg Hershey in Hershey, PA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Lodging options abound whether you want a homey inn or a full-scale resort. For
something unique to the area, stay at the [Hotel Indigo Harrisburg
Hershey](https://www.ihg.com/hotelindigo/hotels/us/en/harrisburg/mdteb/hoteldetail).
You'll recognize touches of Harrisburg and Hershey all around the hotel. Some
are obvious, like framed artwork, while others are less apparent: the blinds in
the room show a topographical map of the Susquehanna River, the pattern in the
lobby carpet echoes the capitol rotunda, and intersecting lines in the decor
mimic the Walnut Street Bridge.

It's beautiful, but looks aren't what matter most in a hotel. Luckily, this one
has comfort front and center, too. It just opened this year, so rooms are fresh
with up-the-minute conveniences like a remote-controlled thermostat and plenty
of nightstand outlets to charge your devices.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/tomato-pie-at-tomato-pie-cafe-in-hershey-pa-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/tomato-pie-at-tomato-pie-cafe-in-hershey-pa-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/tomato-pie-at-tomato-pie-cafe-in-hershey-pa-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-a-couples-travel-guide-to-hershey-and-harrisburg/tomato-pie-at-tomato-pie-cafe-in-hershey-pa-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Tomato Pie at Tomato Pie Café in Hershey, PA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The Hotel Indigo has an on-site restaurant, Riverrun, serving breakfast and
dinner, but local chefs dish out fabulous food all over the region. For an
unusual breakfast, visit the [Tomato Pie Café](http://www.tomatopiecafe.net),
just a mile up the road from the hotel. Try the satisfying quinoa bowl loaded
with sausage, mushrooms, kale and two eggs over easy. Or play it safe and stick
with the classic, cheesy tomato pie. For lunch in downtown Harrisburg, [Mangia
Qui](https://www.mangiaqui.com) beckons foodies who appreciate sustainable food
paired with great Italian wines. Nearby, [The Vegetable
Hunter](http://thevegetablehunter.com) offers up small-batch brewing and
award-winning vegan and vegetarian meals. Then for dinner, go all out at [The
Hershey Pantry](http://www.hersheypantry.com). It's a local favorite, especially
for their generously sized desserts. Get one to split and prove your love by
taking the smaller share. It won't be easy.
