---
title: Must-See Attractions in the Outer Banks
image: /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/lighthouse-in-nags-head-nc-in-the-outer-banks.webp
featured: true
category: North Carolina
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: From collosal dunes to the country's longest running outdoor play, the Outer Banks is more than just beaches.
---

Planning the perfect trip to the Outer Banks this summer? There's plenty to
explore, from nature and history to dining and live theater. This isn't an
exhaustive list of everything to do in the Outer Banks. Beyond the highlights
below, you'll find sightseeing tours, watersports like fishing, parasailing, and
paddling, plus arcades, laser tag, shopping, parks, and historic sites such as
the [Wright Brothers National Memorial](https://www.nps.gov/wrbr/index.htm). If
time is tight, I've picked out the standout experiences worth your while. I'll
also toss in tips for where to stay on Roanoke Island and the beach, along with
some solid dining options. Mix and match to craft your ideal OBX escape.

## The Lost Colony

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/lost-colony-play-outer-banks-nc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/lost-colony-play-outer-banks-nc-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/lost-colony-play-outer-banks-nc-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/lost-colony-play-outer-banks-nc-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="The Lost Colony play in the
  Outer Banks, NC" width="665" height="374" loading="lazy" />

How do you sum up ["The Lost Colony"](https://www.thelostcolony.org/) for
newcomers? It's the nation's longest-running outdoor symphonic drama. Not a
musical, but a retelling of the true, unsolved mystery of America's first
English settlers from 1587, who vanished three years later, leaving only
"CROATOAN" carved on a post. The show brings this tale to life with sword
fights, a dramatic ocean-crossing scene featuring a thunderstorm, and stunning
effects like fire, elaborate sets, and creative puppetry. Held nightly (except
Sundays) from May 29 to Aug. 23, 2025, at the open-air amphitheater in Fort
Raleigh Historic Site on Roanoke Island, it's a spectacle that's drawn over 4
million viewers since 1937. Worth the trip alone.

## Jockey's Ridge State Park

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/ruined-folly-at-jockeys-ridge-state-park-in-the-outer-banks-nc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/ruined-folly-at-jockeys-ridge-state-park-in-the-outer-banks-nc-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/ruined-folly-at-jockeys-ridge-state-park-in-the-outer-banks-nc-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/ruined-folly-at-jockeys-ridge-state-park-in-the-outer-banks-nc-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Ruined folly at Jockey's
  Ridge State Park in the Outer Banks, NC" width="665" height="499"
  loading="lazy" />

Beaches might come to mind when you think of the Outer Banks, but how about the
East Coast's tallest sand dunes? [Jockey's Ridge State
Park](https://www.ncparks.gov/state-parks/jockeys-ridge-state-park) boasts a
surreal landscape of soft, pale brown peaks dotted with green trees. Kick off
your shoes, climb to the top, and soak in views of the Atlantic Ocean and
Roanoke Sound. It's also an adventure spot: watch hang gliders soar, fly a kite,
or try kiteboarding, windsurfing, or sandboarding. There's swimming access on
the soundside too. Sunrises and sunsets here are unbeatable. Admission is free.

## Jennette's Pier

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/jennettes-pier-in-the-outer-banks-nc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/jennettes-pier-in-the-outer-banks-nc-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/jennettes-pier-in-the-outer-banks-nc-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/jennettes-pier-in-the-outer-banks-nc-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Jennette's Pier in the
  Outer Banks, NC" width="665" height="499" loading="lazy" />

[Jennette's Pier](https://www.ncaquariums.com/jennettes-pier) isn't just for
fishing, though it's prime for that. Managed by the North Carolina Aquarium, it
offers free indoor fish exhibits (the Pier Piling Aquarium) with a cool AC
break, clean restrooms, benches, and Wi-Fi. Outside, the 1,000-foot pier juts
into the Atlantic; a small fee lets you walk it. For a free photo op, duck
underneath where the wooden pilings frame the waves.

## Roanoke Island Festival Park

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/1500s-style-woodworker-at-roanoke-island-festival-park-in-the-outer-banks-nc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/1500s-style-woodworker-at-roanoke-island-festival-park-in-the-outer-banks-nc-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/1500s-style-woodworker-at-roanoke-island-festival-park-in-the-outer-banks-nc-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/1500s-style-woodworker-at-roanoke-island-festival-park-in-the-outer-banks-nc-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="1500s-style woodworker at
  Roanoke Island Festival Park in the Outer Banks, NC" width="665" height="374"
  loading="lazy" />

The living history interpreters at [Roanoke Island Festival
Park](https://www.roanokeisland.com/) make the past feel real. Step onto the
Elizabeth II, a replica 16th-century ship, to learn how sailors navigated
without wheels and managed early New World voyages. On this 25-acre island,
watch a blacksmith at work, try woodworking, or don 1500s-style armor. Hear
Native American stories, explore the indoor museum's interactive exhibits, and
catch a film on the Roanoke voyages. It's a smart way to blend fun with a
history lesson.

## The Elizabethan Gardens

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/statue-of-queen-elizabeth-at-the-elizabethan-gardens-in-the-outer-banks-nc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/statue-of-queen-elizabeth-at-the-elizabethan-gardens-in-the-outer-banks-nc-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/statue-of-queen-elizabeth-at-the-elizabethan-gardens-in-the-outer-banks-nc-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/statue-of-queen-elizabeth-at-the-elizabethan-gardens-in-the-outer-banks-nc-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Statue of Queen Elizabeth
  at the Elizabethan Gardens in the Outer Banks, NC" width="665" height="374"
  loading="lazy" />

Love blooms or fairy tales? [The Elizabethan
Gardens](https://www.elizabethangardens.org/) has both. Grab a map to hunt for
12 hidden sprites scattered around. The Discovery Cottage offers climbing,
digging, and indoor learning with terrariums and microscopes, while a butterfly
garden buzzes nearby. The floral lineup—camellias, rhododendrons, hydrangeas,
roses, wisteria—keeps something blooming year-round. Sculptures like the massive
bronze Queen Elizabeth I and a marble Virginia Dare add elegance. Visit at
opening in summer for cooler temps.

## Outer Banks Beaches

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/outer-bank-beaches-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/outer-bank-beaches-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/outer-bank-beaches-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/outer-bank-beaches-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="OBX Beaches in the Outer
  Banks, NC" width="665" height="374" loading="lazy" />

The OBX beaches are a must. Whether you want space to sprawl, shells to collect,
or waves to ride, places like Nags Head and Kitty Hawk deliver easy access.
Nearby, I Got Your Crabs is a casual oyster bar run by a third-generation local
fisherman. Go for the crab-loaded nachos with heaps of cheese. For a treat,
Surfin' Spoon nails it with frozen yogurt and ice cream cookie sandwiches (think
pretzel graham crackers with sea salt caramel). Tough call between a sandwich
and a bowl, but both hit the spot.

## Duck Boardwalk

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/duck-boardwalk-in-duck-nc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/duck-boardwalk-in-duck-nc-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/duck-boardwalk-in-duck-nc-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/duck-boardwalk-in-duck-nc-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Duck Boardwalk in Duck, NC"
  width="665" height="374" loading="lazy" />

A quick drive north to Duck lands you at this free boardwalk along Currituck
Sound. Enjoy the scenery, then hit the Waterfront Shops for unique gifts and
souvenirs. The original [Duck Donuts](https://www.duckdonuts.com/) is a
must-try. Restaurants like [NC Coast Grill & Bar](https://nccoastobx.com/),
[Aqua Restaurant](https://aquarestaurantobx.com/), and [The Blue
Point](https://www.thebluepoint.com/) serve up surf and turf with waterside
views. For a fancier night nearby, [Red Sky Casual Dining &
Cocktails](https://www.redskycafe.com/) offers tasty U-10 scallops in a
laid-back vibe.

## Outer Banks National Scenic Byway

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/bodie-island-light-station-cape-hatteras-nc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/bodie-island-light-station-cape-hatteras-nc-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/bodie-island-light-station-cape-hatteras-nc-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/bodie-island-light-station-cape-hatteras-nc-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Bodie Island Light Station
  in Cape Hatteras, NC" width="665" height="374" loading="lazy" />

Love a good road trip? The [Outer Banks National Scenic
Byway](https://www.visitnc.com/listing/Nfii/outer-banks-national-scenic-byway)
stretches 138 miles along NC Highway 12. Stop at Bodie Island Lighthouse — book
climbing tickets online ahead of time, or just enjoy the grounds and trails.
Pack beach gear; you might find a quiet shore to claim. Grab a sandwich from
[Waves Market and Deli](https://www.facebook.com/wavesmarket/) for a
budget-friendly beach picnic. On the return, pause between Avon and Buxton for a
Pamlico Sound sunset.

## Bonus: Where To Stay in the Outer Banks

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/guest-room-at-the-pearl-in-outer-banks-nc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/guest-room-at-the-pearl-in-outer-banks-nc-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/guest-room-at-the-pearl-in-outer-banks-nc-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-10-must-see-attractions-in-outer-banks-this-summer/guest-room-at-the-pearl-in-outer-banks-nc-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Guest room at The Pearl in
  the Outer Banks, NC" width="665" height="374" loading="lazy" />

In downtown Manteo, [The Pearl](https://www.pearlguest.com/) blends boutique
elegance with comfort. Its 16 unique rooms feature Italian-inspired decor, luxe
fabrics, and modern perks like smart TVs and sleek bathrooms. Coffee and a light
breakfast (think sweet potato biscuits from Mia's Bake Shop) come with your
stay. The rooftop greenspace offers Manteo's best views—perfect for morning
coffee or sunset swings. Walk to sandwich shops, ice cream, and the Roanoke
Marshes Lighthouse.
