---
title: Everything To See, Do, and Eat in Milledgeville, Georgia
image: /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/atkinson-hall-at-georgia-college-and-state-university-in-milledgeville-ga.webp
featured: true
category: Georgia
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: Check out this small town for outdoor beauty, 19th-century architecture, and farm-fresh treats.
last-updated: 2025-04-09
---

Deeply historic and buoyantly youthful, walkable and welcoming, Milledgeville is
a city unlike any other in Georgia. You might come for the small town charm —
and charming, indeed, it is — but you’ll fall for its outdoor beauty,
19th-century architecture, farm-fresh treats, and indie shops, art and antiques.
Try a visit and you’ll see.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/veterans-memorial-in-downtown-milledgeville-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/veterans-memorial-in-downtown-milledgeville-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/veterans-memorial-in-downtown-milledgeville-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/veterans-memorial-in-downtown-milledgeville-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Veterans Memorial in Downtown Milledgeville"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

While a weekend will give you enough time for the highlights, a few days or even
a week lets you explore at a gentler pace. I recommend the latter. Milledgeville
isn't the kind of place you want to rush. Go slowly and savor it all. Here’s
how.

## A Unique B&B in Milledgeville

The city’s heart and soul, Milledgeville’s 10-block historic district is the
best place to stay, and there’s just one hotel downtown: [The Inn on North
Jefferson](https://theinnonnorthjefferson.com/). Checking into the circa 1820
home, with its columns, wrought iron fence, rocking chairs, and flickering
lanterns, feels like stepping back in time.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="The Inn on North Jefferson at Christmas in Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The house is filled with vintage touches, which, if not entirely true to
one specific period, are altogether homier and more inviting. I was enchanted
with the details, like the built-in bookcases in our cornflower-blue master
(“The Elizabeth”), lovingly layered with bric-a-brac. A silver rocking horse. A
teacup atop a stack of books. A glass candle snuffer. Two clocks. A pair of
old-fashioned spectacles.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-elizabeth-room-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-elizabeth-room-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-elizabeth-room-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-elizabeth-room-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="The Elizabeth Room at The Inn on North Jefferson in Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="349"
  loading="lazy"
/>

There’s a sense of coziness within. You might grab a drink from the bar in the
lounge, crack open a puzzle in the gameroom, or just kick back on the sofa in
the parlor as you gaze out the bay windows. Of course, you’ve still got all your
modern conveniences at hand, such as remote-controlled AC, a keypad for ease of
entry, and the obligatory Keurig. There are even complimentary snacks to fortify
yourself for your adventures around town.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/snacks-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/snacks-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/snacks-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/snacks-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Snacks at the Inn on North Jefferson in Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

In the backyard, a pool welcomes guests when the weather’s fine. During the
holidays, garlands and ornaments festoon the rooms. Of course, that’s only half
of the bed and breakfast experience. We'll come to the most important meal of
the day later on.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-pool-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-pool-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-pool-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/the-pool-at-the-inn-on-north-jefferson-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="The Pool at the Inn on North Jefferson in Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

## Discovering Downtown Milly

Once you roll out of bed, you have the walkable downtown at your fingertips — or
footsteps, so to speak. Antique hunters will be delighted. Newer boutiques,
meanwhile, like the aptly named
[Eclectic](https://www.facebook.com/EclecticNWayne/), offer a curated selection
of trendy and locally made gifts and souvenirs.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/local-shop-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/local-shop-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/local-shop-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/local-shop-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="A local shop in downtown Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

After shopping, see the sights. Founded in 1803 and designed as the state’s
capital, a role it held for over 60 years, Milledgeville shows off a mix of
Federal, Greek Revival, Victorian, and neoclassical architecture along its
pretty oak-lined streets and squares. The 1807 Old State Capitol is the most
visually stunning, sporting castle-like tower and crenellations, but it’s just
one of more than 45 historic sites you can walk to. Pick up a brochure and map
for a self-guided walking tour at the visitor’s center, itself housed in a
former 1911 post office.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/theatre-turned-bookstore-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/theatre-turned-bookstore-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/theatre-turned-bookstore-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/theatre-turned-bookstore-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Theatre turned bookstore in downtown Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

For an easier way to see it all, board the trolley tour departing from the
center every Saturday morning. You'll cruise by the city’s landmarks as your
guide recounts their stories — like that of the Sallie Ellis Davis House, a
modest weatherboard cottage that preserves the legacy of a woman who educated
hundreds of Black students in the segregated South. You'll also step inside St.
Stephen’s Episcopal Church, its arched windows streaming light through stained
and painted glass. Built in the 1840s, the church is the city’s oldest, restored
since the Civil War when Sherman’s forces stabled their horses in the sanctuary
and poured syrup down the organ.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/trolley-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/trolley-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/trolley-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/trolley-in-downtown-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Trolley in downtown Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The grand dame of historic sites in Milledgeville, worth a tour of its own, is
Georgia's Old Governor’s Mansion. The beige-pink home of Georgia’s governors
from 1839 to 1868 houses a museum exploring the political and social issues of
that era. At Christmastime, it’s resplendent with period decor.

If you’re lucky enough to be planning a trip in October, time your visit for the
[Deep Roots
Festival](https://www.visitmilledgeville.org/event/deep-roots-festival/6750/),
when concerts, cook-offs, a car show, food trucks, inflatables, and more take
over downtown.

## Exploring the Outdoors

For a quiet walk through the historic district, the scenic campuses of Georgia
College and Georgia Military College provide plenty of greenery. For something a
bit more… atmospheric, let’s say, the Central State Hospital, once the largest
mental health institution in the world, beckons. Derelict brick buildings from
the mid-1800s, where treatments once included lobotomies and shock therapy,
front a large pecan grove that yields a plentiful harvest in fall. Take a
trolley tour led by a former hospital employee to learn more and wander the
cemetery where patients are laid to rest.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/oconee-river-greenway-park-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/oconee-river-greenway-park-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/oconee-river-greenway-park-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/oconee-river-greenway-park-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Oconee River Greenway Park in Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

If you’re feeling more active, you can kayak down the Oconee River (rentals in
town) or hike in the shade of Bartram Forest just south of the city. A stroll or
cycle along the three-mile riverfront greenway offers a glimpse of moody ruins
of an 1890s grist mill. And you don’t have to be an outdoor enthusiast to enjoy
the quiet beauty of Lockerly Arboretum. This 50-acre preserve features not only
trails, trees, and one of the largest collections of camellias in the region but
also a three-story antebellum mansion, Rose Hill.

Andalusia is yet another site blending history and nature. The former home of
author Flannery O'Connor was settled in 1814 as a cotton plantation. Tour the
house and its outbuildings, like the cow barn and milk cooling shed. Then hike
the short Tobler Creek Trail. We spotted deer in the surrounding forest, and
there’s even a resident peacock strutting the grounds.

## Best Places To Eat in Milledgeville

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/stuffed-french-toast-at-the-local-yolkal-cafe-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/stuffed-french-toast-at-the-local-yolkal-cafe-in-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/stuffed-french-toast-at-the-local-yolkal-cafe-in-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/stuffed-french-toast-at-the-local-yolkal-cafe-in-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Stuffed French Toast at the Local Yolkal Cafe in Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Back to breakfast now. If you're booked at The Inn on North Jefferson, a meal at
[The Local Yolkal Cafe](https://thelocalyolkal.com/) is included with your stay
(a dramatic improvement, I feel, on the more common B&B protocol of chef’s
choice with strangers at dawn). Even if you're not staying at the inn, you want
to try this award-winning brunch spot. They serve breakfast and lunch, so
whether you fancy a cobb salad, shrimp and gouda-infused grits, or stuffed
French toast, you’re covered. Be sure to try one of their legendary benedicts,
coming in seven varieties that range from Creole sardou to The Hemingway with
smoked salmon.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/curry-and-naan-metropolis-cafe-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/curry-and-naan-metropolis-cafe-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/curry-and-naan-metropolis-cafe-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/curry-and-naan-metropolis-cafe-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Curry and naan at Metropolis Cafe in Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Dinner invariably brings you back downtown. For something casual yet different,
tempt your palate with the Mediterranean flavors at [Metropolis
Cafe](https://metropoliscafega.com/). Fill up on kebabs, soft pita slathered
with tzatziki or hummus, and the delicious wonton-wrapped chicken momo
appetizer, steamed and grilled to perfection — unless you happen to be there
Thursday when they serve Indian food, in which case, naan and curry are the way
to go.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/blackbird-coffee-milledgeville-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/blackbird-coffee-milledgeville-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/blackbird-coffee-milledgeville-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-everything-to-see-do-and-eat-in-milledgeville-georgia/blackbird-coffee-milledgeville-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Blackbird Coffee in Milledgeville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Wind down your evening at [Blackbird Coffee](https://www.blackbirdcoffee.com/). This is a college town, after all,
where an espresso is appropriate any time of day. Sink into a couch and soak up
the vibe, summed up in exposed brick walls and the smell of locally roasted
beans, as you dream of tomorrow, another day for historic walks, treasure
seeking, great food and new friends.
