---
title: "How To Road Trip Florida's Famous A1A"
image: /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/a1a-sign-fort-lauderdale-fl.webp
featured: true
category: Florida
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: An iconic highway hugs the Atlantic almost the entire length of the Sunshine State, from Fernandina Beach down to Key West.
---

No coastal drive sums up Florida quite so well as the A1A.

Before moving here, I too summed up the state in theme parks and condos. But on
various drives down this iconic highway, I've discovered its richness and
breadth — lighthouses and seaside towns as quaint as any in New England,
frontiers as wild as the West, and a quirkiness that is unapologetically
Floridian.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/beach-in-key-west-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/beach-in-key-west-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/beach-in-key-west-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/beach-in-key-west-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Beach in Key West, FL"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The A1A hugs the Atlantic almost the entire length of the Sunshine State, from
Fernandina Beach down to Key West. My favorite stretch is St. Augustine to
Stuart, 230 miles through classic "Old Florida." Think fishing villages and
roadside attractions, palm hammocks and porch swings.

The drive takes around seven hours, but I recommend a couple days if you can.
Detours are irresistible.

## Steeped in History

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/castillo-de-san-marcos-in-st-augustine-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/castillo-de-san-marcos-in-st-augustine-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/castillo-de-san-marcos-in-st-augustine-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/castillo-de-san-marcos-in-st-augustine-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Castillo de San Marcos in St. Augustine, FL"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Founded in 1565, St. Augustine is chock full of national firsts: the oldest
street, oldest alligator farm, the original [fountain of
youth](https://www.fountainofyouthflorida.com) supposedly found by Ponce de León
in 1513 — an archeological park today marks the spot where you can sip from the
cool, faintly sulfurous spring.

It's the perfect place to start a journey. Begin at the [Castillo de San
Marcos](http://www.nps.gov/casa), a sprawling 17th-century stone fort (the
oldest in the country, of course), now a national monument. Decked out with
drawbridge, dry moat, dungeons, and towers, the star-shaped fortress stands
regal against a backdrop of palm trees and T-shirt-clad tourists.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/worlds-oldest-wooden-school-house-in-st-augustine-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/worlds-oldest-wooden-school-house-in-st-augustine-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/worlds-oldest-wooden-school-house-in-st-augustine-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/worlds-oldest-wooden-school-house-in-st-augustine-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="World's Oldest Wooden School House in St Augustine, FL"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

From there, we walked to St. George Street. The pedestrian mall overflows with
souvenir shops, eateries, and kitsch, plus relics of genuine history. The
[Oldest Wooden School House](https://oldestwoodenschoolhouse.com), weathered and
gray, is one. The [18th-century Spanish Renaissance
basilica](http://www.dosafl.com/parish/cathedral-basilica-of-st-augustine) is
another. We ducked inside the cathedral, and the bustling, sunlit street
vanished, replaced by jewel-toned stained glass and low, resonant organ music.

Leaving downtown, the road crosses the Bridge of Lions to Anastasia Island. A
little farther and St. Augustine's lighthouse comes into distant view, its black
and white stripes dwarfing the trees.

This northern part of the A1A is officially an All-American Road, fairly
tripping over itself with parks and scenic pull-offs, none quite so lovely as
[Washington Oaks Gardens State
Park](https://www.floridastateparks.org/parks-and-trails/washington-oaks-gardens-state-park).
The former winter estate boasts 20 acres of gardens — cool-weather camellias,
pale gardenias, roses by the thousands, and bromeliads crowded under live oaks
dripping Spanish moss. Don't miss the oceanfront side of the park with one of
the largest coquina rock formations on the Atlantic, their water-carved shapes
as intricate as brushstrokes.

## Lagoon Life

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/jetty-at-ponce-inlet-near-daytona-beach-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/jetty-at-ponce-inlet-near-daytona-beach-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/jetty-at-ponce-inlet-near-daytona-beach-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/jetty-at-ponce-inlet-near-daytona-beach-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Jetty at the Ponce Inlet near Daytona Beach, FL"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Just past Daytona Beach, the A1A veers right, but continue straight to the tip
of [Ponce Inlet](https://www.ponceinlet.org/), where the state's tallest
lighthouse towers in brick-red glory. The views from the top are more than worth
the climb. From the balcony, I see the ocean, inlet, lagoon, river, and more.

The road ends at the inlet, so there's nothing to do but turn around and hop on
U.S. 1, the detour away from the coast a good excuse for exploring the
backcountry wilds of Florida.

## Optional Detour: Cracker Creek

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/kayaking-at-cracker-creek-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/kayaking-at-cracker-creek-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/kayaking-at-cracker-creek-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/kayaking-at-cracker-creek-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Kayaking at Cracker Creek, FL"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

I'm probably biased, but I recommend the detour. It's how we found [Cracker
Creek](https://crackercreek.com/).

Cracker — the term for early Florida pioneers, so-called for the crack of their
whip while herding cattle — is a fitting name for this 20-acre homestead. It has
several authentic cracker homes, and you can paddle the blackwater creek,
fringed with tree canopy, almost as undisturbed today as it was a century ago.

Cultural oddities lurk nearby, too. Next door at Gamble Place, the 175-acre home
of James Gamble, of Procter & Gamble fame. The site features several historic
buildings, but the fairest and certainly strangest of them all is a replica of
Snow White's cottage.

Built in 1938 (the year following the release of the Disney film), it comes with
a wishing well, mine shaft and tiny witch's hut inhabited by a cutout crone. All
seem quite at home among the silent, moss-laden pines, as though in an enchanted
wood.

## Cape Canaveral and Cocoa Beach

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/cocoa-beach-pier-cocoa-beach-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/cocoa-beach-pier-cocoa-beach-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/cocoa-beach-pier-cocoa-beach-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/cocoa-beach-pier-cocoa-beach-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Cocoa Beach Pier in Cocoa Beach, FL"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

If you drive through charming New Smyrna Beach (make a pit stop for the
archaeological ruins at the free Old Fort Park downtown), you'll end back on the
A1A. It dead-ends (briefly) into the vast [Canaveral National
Seashore](https://www.nps.gov/cana), but you can pick it up again farther south
as it rolls into Cocoa Beach. We stopped by the famous [Cocoa Beach
Pier](https://www.cocoabeachpier.com), an essential photo op, and sauntered to
the end, peering at sunbathers and swimmers below.

It's not _all_ about the beach, though. On the other side of the barrier island
flows the Indian River Lagoon, the most biodiverse estuary in the country. Here,
I've seen manatees, dolphins, scores of long-necked wading birds — much of the
area is on the [Great Florida Birding
Trail](https://floridabirdingtrail.com/trail/trail-sections/east-section/) — and
a jumping, silver-sided fish that a local informed me is mullet.

The lagoon is best explored by kayak, but there are plenty of parks off the A1A
that let you glimpse this thriving habitat. The [Barrier Island
Sanctuary](https://www.brevardfl.gov/EELProgram/Sanctuaries/BarrierIslandSanctuary),
located within a wildlife refuge, is one of the finest. Its one-mile trail
circles past a dizzying array of landscapes: mangroves, dunes flecked with sea
oats, a boardwalk through a tropical forest, a sea grape tunnel opening onto the
ocean. In spring, wildflowers bloom purple and yellow on the coastal plain.

## Treasure Coast

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/fish-tacos-at-little-jim-bait-tackle-in-fort-pierce-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/fish-tacos-at-little-jim-bait-tackle-in-fort-pierce-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/fish-tacos-at-little-jim-bait-tackle-in-fort-pierce-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/fish-tacos-at-little-jim-bait-tackle-in-fort-pierce-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Fish tacos at Little Jim Bait & Tackle in Fort Pierce, FL"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Part of the charm of the A1A is being surrounded by water, the Atlantic on one
side, the Intracoastal Waterway on the other. Signs for beaches beckon from the
road, deepening their siren call the farther south we go. When we can't resist
any longer, we pull off at [Fort Pierce Inlet State
Park](https://www.floridastateparks.org/parks-and-trails/fort-pierce-inlet-state-park)
to dig our toes in the sand. The ocean is dotted with surfers riding
white-crested waves, having the time of their lives.

Across the bridge, the dockside eatery [Little Jim Bait &
Tackle](https://www.littlejimbaitandtackle.com) hums with activity, a local
favorite for over 70 years. The sign is faded, the scene a blend of seagulls,
flip-flops, and license plate decor. It's where I had the best taco of my life —
fresh and plentiful shrimp with the zest of a flawless cilantro-lime sauce. The
views and good vibes didn't hurt either.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/ross-witham-beach-stuart-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/ross-witham-beach-stuart-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/ross-witham-beach-stuart-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-how-to-road-trip-floridas-famous-a1a/ross-witham-beach-stuart-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Ross Witham Beach in Stuart, FL"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Farther south, we swing by [Frederick Douglass Memorial
Park](https://www.stlucieco.gov/things-to-do/recreation/beaches/frederick-douglass-memorial-park),
the only beach in South Florida you can horseback ride on, arriving as a few
happy riders return from their tour. It's otherwise nearly deserted, despite it
being a balmy Saturday afternoon.

The last beach is even more unusual. In the small city of Stuart, Ross Witham
Beach sits moody and picturesque. Waves lash limestone cliffs forming jagged sea
caves a mere [100
yards](https://discovermartin.com/directory/ross-witham-beach/) from a
shipwreck, one of many that give this area its name, "Treasure Coast." I
dart around one outcropping, soused by a spray in the attempt, to find myself on
a soft crescent of sand, shaded by rocks. It's hardly what you'd expect just two
hours north of Miami.

But that's what I love about Florida. It's constantly surprising me with
unfamiliar vistas, unsought delights. I stumble upon something weird or
wonderful (often both) in every coastal community we pass. We go slowly. There
are treasures still to discover.

## Tips for Your A1A Road Trip

A few final tips before you go. Here's how to make the most of your scenic A1A
drive.

**Plan on sunrise.** Dawn on Florida's east coast is magic. Jetty Park in Fort
Pierce and the Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge in Melbourne, where you
might even spot baby sea turtles during nesting season, are two great options.

**Chill in Flagler Beach.** Stop here for a laidback lunch. Try the "Flagler
Beach" fish wrap at [Beach Belly Bob's](https://www.beachbellybobs.com/). Then
stroll a quarter mile north to see a beachside home with pirate dummies on the
roof, scaling the side, and elsewhere about the premises — because why not?

**Soak up surf culture.** The world's largest surf store, the flagship Ron Jon
Surf Shop in Cocoa Beach is fun to browse even if you're not a surfer.
Afterward, grab a drink or dog at Long Doggers, a "radically relaxed" (and
delicious) grill.
