---
title: How To Make the Most of a Romantic Weekend in Asheville
image: /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-romantic.webp
featured: true
category: North Carolina
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: Trails tripping over waterfalls, Instagram-flawless food, flowers galore and those beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains.
last-updated: 2025-03-25
---

You don’t have to be traveling with your significant other to find romance in
Asheville. This North Carolina tourist destination has it in spades. We’re
talking about trails tripping over waterfalls, Instagram-flawless food, flowers
galore and those beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains.

It’s hard to cram it all in a weekend, but if you must, here’s how to do it
while keeping things relaxed.

## 1. Pack a Gourmet Picnic

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-picnic-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-picnic-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-picnic-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-picnic-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Picnic at Catawba Falls in Old Fort, NC, near Asheville" 
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

If you’re going to be out in that gorgeous nature all day, you’ll be hungry, but
you don’t necessarily want to cut your hike short. Plan ahead by bringing a
picnic.

The Rhu has already figured this out. They offer [picnic
baskets](https://the-rhu.com/asheville-the-rhu-picnic) that you can pick up that
morning and enjoy in the mountains.

This is truly the perfect scenario: you indulging in a gourmet feast against the
backdrop of a waterfall or valley or some other scenic spot. Many of the
trailheads have picnic tables, though I find the food tastes even better after a
bit of a hike.

Whether you want to savor olives and cheese or dig into a sandwich, The Rhu can
put it together for you, tucked neatly away in an adorable picnic basket (you
can request a disposable bag if preferred). Their incredible breads, like
levain, brioche and baguette, are a highlight — it is a bakery, after all. If
you get the brunch basket, ask for the bagel with smoked trout. It tastes a bit
like smoked salmon, salty, contrasting nicely with the sweets you’ll be loading
up on.

Above, see a sample of some of the baked treasures found inside the Rhu’s brunch
basket: a deeply buttery biscuit with prosciutto, a seasonal fruit galette, a
savory scone and, most unusual, the croixette, a cross between a croissant and a
baguette. Sparkling water on the side. Rushing water in the background. Enjoyed
in our own shady nook we found off the popular Catawba Falls trail, this was one
of the best picnics we’ve ever had.

## 2. Hit the Trails

<img 
  src="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-trail-665.webp" 
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-trail-320.webp 320w, 
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-trail-480.webp 480w, 
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/asheville-trail-665.webp 665w" 
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" 
  alt="Flower on a trail in Asheville" 
  width="665" 
  height="449" 
  loading="lazy"
/>

If you look at a map of greater Asheville, it looks like two giant swathes of
green are about to converge on the city. One comes in from the northeast and the
other from the southwest, the same diagonal path the Blue Ridge Parkway takes
through Asheville.

You can’t go both directions at once if you just have a day. Pick one area and
hit a couple trails near there.

For killer views, head southwest to [Mt.
Pigsah](https://www.exploreasheville.com/stories/post/mount-pisgah-trail/), a
three-mile roundtrip with some serious elevation gain that’s all worth it at the
end. Then climb Frying Pan Tower, a 70-foot-tower on a nearby trail that lets
you see for miles.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/catawba-falls-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/catawba-falls-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/catawba-falls-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/catawba-falls-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Catawba Falls in Asheville"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Or go northeast for waterfalls. The three-mile hike to Crabtree Falls is fairly
moderate and you’re rewarded with a massive cascade eye-level from the bridge.
If you have time, stop by Catawba Falls on the way back into town. This popular
hike is less than 1.5 miles with a wide path to accommodate the high volume of
foot traffic.

## 3. Play Like You’re a Kid Again

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/board-game-cafe-asheville-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/board-game-cafe-asheville-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/board-game-cafe-asheville-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/board-game-cafe-asheville-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Well Played Board Game Café in Asheville"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Unwind from your hike downtown. There are plenty of places to play: breweries,
shops, theaters. There’s the [French Broad
Chocolate](https://www.frenchbroadchocolates.com/), a longstanding “chocolate
lounge” with lines out the door and, on occasion, street performers outside
plying their trade.

But no place combines food with fun quite like the [Well Played Board Game
Café](https://wellplayedasheville.com/). For only $7 per person ($10 on the
weekends), you can enjoy unlimited games — classics like Jenga and Clue and so
much more. In their collection of over 700, you’ll find games themed for pretty
much anything you want, whether that’s Disney, zombies, or sushi. Plus, it’s a
great opportunity for some quality couple time.

Games are marked with stickers to show how quick you can learn them if they’re
new to you, but gamemasters are on hand to help whenever you need it.

Game cafe food can be mediocre, but this is a restaurant that’s right at home in
the foodie town of Asheville. They’ve got craft beers, espresso, local cheeses,
and seasonal pies. I can vouch for the chicken wrap, not greasy and thoroughly
delicious. They also serve tea, cider, cocktails, slushies, and Cheerwine (an
NC-homegrown cherry soda).

These aren’t the only nostalgic games downtown that you can pair with libations.
Head over to the [Asheville Pinball Museum](https://ashevillepinball.com/) for
the ultimate retro experience. As museums go, it’s hands-on. Play some 80 games
from pinball machines to old-fashioned video games. Minus a couple that cost 50
cents, all are set to free play, so once you pay at the bar for your wristband,
it’s yours to explore.

The games are as recent as this millennium but stretch all the way back to the
1950s, including a few so historic they’re display only. If you played arcade
games in the ’80s or ’90s, this trip down memory lane is obligatory. You’ll
rediscover old favorites like Pac-Man, and you can play as a couple for some
additional bonding — just don’t get too competitive!

**Fun fact:** You can also pick up some fascinating trivia by reading the nearby
placards. Did you know the Twilight Zone pinball maker hired a voice actor?

## 4. Lounge in Comfort

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/hampton-inn-suites-asheville-biltmore-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/hampton-inn-suites-asheville-biltmore-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/hampton-inn-suites-asheville-biltmore-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/hampton-inn-suites-asheville-biltmore-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Hampton Inn & Suites Asheville Biltmore Area"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Asheville has plenty of hotels to choose from, whether you want a local B&B or a
name brand where you can rack up reward points. The [Hampton Inn & Suites
Asheville Biltmore
Area](https://www.hilton.com/en/hotels/avlbahx-hampton-suites-asheville-biltmore-area/)
was perfect for us because it was convenient to downtown, Biltmore, and the
interstate, which you’ll be hopping on and off of as you explore the greater
Asheville area and all those waterfalls. As a bonus, it’s less than three miles
from the North Carolina Arboretum and next door to the Asheville Outlets.

Opened in 2018, the hotel is modern with a chic lobby and convenient bedside
outlets for your devices.

And the complimentary breakfast is solid, a step above ordinary continental fare
with Greek yogurt, hard-boiled eggs, waffles, and fresh fruit like berries and
pineapple.

Rooms are comfortable and quiet, though after a day of hiking, you won’t have
trouble falling asleep anyway. The indoor pool is nice, if hard to share with an
enthusiastic baseball team, but the amenity I liked the most was the water
bottle filling station. Hydration is key for all that hiking we were doing!

## 5. Bliss out at Biltmore

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/biltmore-mansion-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/biltmore-mansion-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/biltmore-mansion-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/biltmore-mansion-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Biltmore Mansion"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

It's America's grandest estate, but superlatives really don’t do it justice. The
gardens are overflowing with blooms right now. Hydrangeas, magnolias,
rhododendrons, dogwood, begonias — it’s not so much the profusion of color
that’s dizzying as the sheer scale and artistry that underpins it. Plan to spend
at least one full day here.

The beauty helps you overlook the heat if you go in summer. If you’re going on a
day where you need a timed entry for the house, reserve your slot midday to get
a break from the sun.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/gardens-biltmore-manor-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/gardens-biltmore-manor-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/gardens-biltmore-manor-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/gardens-biltmore-manor-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Gardens at the Biltmore Mansion"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Indoors, the panoramas are no less impressive. The medieval-style banquet room
is seven stories tall. The library contains some 10,000 volumes on its rich
walnut shelves. And the loggia opens onto views of the Deerpark and distant
mountains that go on forever. Allow at least two hours for your self-guided tour
(audio guide optional).

And you can’t ignore Antler Hill Village & Winery. They sometimes have exhibits
there as well as a wine tasting, included with admission. If that sounds like a
lot, it is. Although you can leave the estate and come back the same day with
your ticket, it’s better to stay on the property to maximize your time.

**Local tip:** Nearby, [Historic Biltmore
Village](http://www.historicbiltmorevillage.com/), a turn-of-the-century planned
community originally created for estate workers, has been beloved for years as a
shopping and dining destination with an Old World aesthetic. Since Hurricane
Helene devastated this area in September 2024, most of the shops and restaurants
remain closed, but they’re rebuilding. First on the list is [the world’s
classiest
McDonald’s](https://www.citizen-times.com/story/news/local/2025/01/14/ashevilles-fancy-mcdonalds-to-return-after-being-destroyed-by-helene/77666908007/),
once sporting a baby grand piano and copper ceiling. I remember loving the
village’s graceful architecture and wide brick sidewalks. I look forward to its
rebirth!

Biltmore has plenty of dining options on site, but they do allow outside food in
designated areas, so you can grab lunch to enjoy on the grounds of the estate. I
do love a good picnic.

Tickets are cheapest ordered ahead, so I recommend [booking
online](https://www.biltmore.com/landing/ticket-options/) before you go.

## 6. Wander Through a Floral Arboretum

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/north-carolina-arboretum-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/north-carolina-arboretum-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/north-carolina-arboretum-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-03-25-romantic-weekend-asheville/north-carolina-arboretum-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt=""
  width="665"
  height="436"
  loading="lazy"
/>

I like trees as much as the next person, but I’m here for the flowers.

Despite its name, the North Carolina Arboretum includes several manicured
gardens that make for a pleasant evening stroll — they’re open as late as 9 p.m.
in the summer.

They even have art exhibits. When we visited, they were hosting a summer
celebration about color theory, nature, art and science in the Baker Exhibit
Center.

There’s a parking fee, but admission to the 434-acre public garden is free.
Hiking and biking trails meander across the property. The gardens blend artistic
touches like topiary and fountains with carefully selected flowers.

Enjoy the changing shades as dusk sets in. The best view is from Blue Ridge
Court, which, as you’d expect, looks out toward the mountains. It’s a perfect
ending to a truly romantic weekend in Asheville.
