---
title: "Exploring Athens: Go Beyond the Game in this Trendy College Town"
image: /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/bird-mural-in-downtown-athens-ga.webp
featured: true
category: Georgia
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: This college town boasts award-winning restaurants, expansive nature, and plenty of history.
---

When people think of Athens, stadiums and football spring to mind, but this
classic Southern city is growing as a tourist destination in its own right. On a
casual trip through town, you’ll find award-winning restaurants, expansive
nature and plenty of history. Wrap all three together, and it’s a getaway to
remember.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/pansies-in-state-botanical-garden-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/pansies-in-state-botanical-garden-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/pansies-in-state-botanical-garden-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/pansies-in-state-botanical-garden-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Pansies in the State Botanical Garden in Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

## Step Outside and Soak Up Athens Nature

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/boardwalk-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/boardwalk-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/boardwalk-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/boardwalk-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Boardwalk trail in a wooded park in Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>


Start off with some outdoor exercise. In a city that’s predominantly Georgia
Bulldogs black and red, it’s pleasant to find so much green.
Parks and nature paths are plentiful, like the [Firefly
Trail](https://www.fireflytrail.com/), an ambitious rails-to-trails project
beginning in Athens and planned to extend all the way to Union Point (about 35
miles) one day. Nearby, the tree-lined 3.5-mile North Oconee River Greenway is
another great place for a walk or bike ride.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/garden-fountain-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/garden-fountain-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/garden-fountain-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/garden-fountain-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Fountain in a garden courtyard in Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>


With more than 2,000 acres of public green space, the city prizes its natural
resources, so perhaps it’s not surprising that it’s one of the only places in
the world you’ll find a tree that owns itself. As the legend goes, a
19th-century university professor who owned the tallest tree in town decided to
deed the land it was on to the oak itself. Athens’ citizens went along with it.
Over the years, it became such an icon that when the original tree died, they
planted another from its acorns. Today, it's one of the Classic City’s top
attractions.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/flower-lined-bridge-in-wooded-garden-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/flower-lined-bridge-in-wooded-garden-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/flower-lined-bridge-in-wooded-garden-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/flower-lined-bridge-in-wooded-garden-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Flower-lined bridge in a wooded garden in Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Another Athens claim to fame, the [State Botanical Garden of
Georgia](https://botgarden.uga.edu/) covers more than 300 acres on the south
side of town. The prettiest spots are conveniently near the visitor center. You
can relax in the beauty of the Shade Garden, colorful and exotic, or admire the
Italian Renaissance style of the Heritage Garden. Don’t skip the newly opened
Alice H. Richards Children’s Garden, even if you’re not traveling with kids.
Though geared toward younger ages, the interactive design makes it fun for all.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/black-bear-at-bear-hollow-zoo-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/black-bear-at-bear-hollow-zoo-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/black-bear-at-bear-hollow-zoo-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/black-bear-at-bear-hollow-zoo-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Black bear at Bear Hollow Zoo in Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

[Bear Hollow Zoo](https://www.accgov.com/bearhollow) isn’t just for kids,
either. As a city park, it’s much less crowded than traditional zoos, with free
admission to boot. On a short trail, you can meet dozens of native species that
can't survive in the wild anymore. Residents include raptors like bald eagles
and owls, several reptiles, an otter, a bobcat and everyone’s favorite, a trio
of black bears.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/dogwood-flowers-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/dogwood-flowers-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/dogwood-flowers-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/dogwood-flowers-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Dogwood flowers in Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

To see more animals, head across town to the [Sandy Creek Nature
Center](https://www.sandycreeknaturecenterinc.org/). The visitors center has
four aquariums plus exhibits on marine ecosystems. You might spot wildlife out
on the trails, though it takes a sharp eye. A trail guide gives hints and hopes
for what to look for: beavers in Kingfisher Pond, deer in the wooded uplands,
warblers along the Claypit Pond wetlands.

Wrap up your day in the sun at the free and inspiring [Georgia Museum of
Art](https://www.visitathensga.com/listing/georgia-museum-of-art/290/). On a
terraced lawn off the entrance lobby, the museum’s sculpture garden is a quiet
retreat where art blends with nature.


## Stroll Through Historic Athens

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/historic-morton-theatre-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/historic-morton-theatre-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/historic-morton-theatre-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/historic-morton-theatre-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="The historic Morton Theatre in Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="434"
  loading="lazy"
/>

You don’t have to search far in Athens to find pieces of its past. Even its
parks have scraps of history. The Greenway, for example, features dozens of
interpretive panels on Athens through the years. A detour off Firefly Trail into
scenic Dudley Park, meanwhile, leads you to the ruins of the “R.E.M. Murmur”
railroad trestle, chartered in 1833 and immortalized on the cover of the
Athens-based rock band’s debut album. And the county’s oldest structure still
standing, an early 1800s log cabin, can be found along one of the trails at the
Sandy Creek Nature Center.

Downtown is just as littered with landmarks. One of the best is the [Morton
Theatre](https://www.mortontheatre.com/). Open for shows, it’s one of the oldest
African-American owned and operated vaudeville theaters still around. You can
see original seats and equipment from the theater’s heyday and learn about its
creator and stars on a guided tour.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/ware-lyndon-house-museum-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/ware-lyndon-house-museum-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/ware-lyndon-house-museum-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/ware-lyndon-house-museum-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Historic Ware-Lyndon House"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>


Two blocks from the theater is yet another artifact: an authentic Civil War
double barrel cannon. Designed and made in Athens, this unusual invention was
intended to be a deadly defensive weapon, loaded with two cannon balls connected
by a chain. But it failed miserably during testing — the chain broke and the
balls went spinning off in divergent directions, causing considerable property
damage — so the cannon was never used. Today it’s fulfilling a different use as
a popular photo backdrop on the lawn of City Hall.

From downtown, you can begin a self-guided tour of the city’s four historic home
museums, located within a mile of each other and beautifully preserved. Start at
the [Church-Waddel-Brumby House
Museum](https://www.athenswelcomecenter.com/rooms), supposed to be the city's
oldest extant home. It doubles as the welcome center, so you can pick up maps
and brochures before heading to the [Ware-Lyndon
House](https://www.accgov.com/2779/Ware-Lyndon-Historic-House) just up the road.
This building also pulls double duty: an Italianate Greek Revival mansion with
lavish period decor on one side and a vibrant arts center on the other,
showcasing paintings, sculpture and more. If you’re using Google Maps, plug in
the Lyndon House Arts Center to get to the right destination.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/statue-in-garden-outside-historic-ware-lyndon-house-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/statue-in-garden-outside-historic-ware-lyndon-house-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/statue-in-garden-outside-historic-ware-lyndon-house-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/statue-in-garden-outside-historic-ware-lyndon-house-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt=""
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Next up, the pink and white [T.R.R. Cobb House](https://www.trrcobbhouse.org/)
was once the home of a successful lawyer, who showed off his wealth by upgrading
his home to a mansion, adding its distinctive, symmetrical octogonal wings
around 1852. It's the first attraction so far in this list that has a cost, a
“whopping” $2 for adults; kids are free. The fee is worth it to gawk at the
period furnishings like a turtle-top marble table and a cabinet filled with
delicate burgundy and white china gifted by the Georgia Legislature.

From here, you’re less than five minutes by foot from the [Taylor-Grady
House](https://www.taylorgrady.com/). Lit by chandeliers and surrounded by
columns, this antebellum National Historic Landmark exudes elegance and, not
surprisingly, is a popular venue for weddings.

## Where To Eat in Athens

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/custom-bowl-from-maepole-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/custom-bowl-from-maepole-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/custom-bowl-from-maepole-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/custom-bowl-from-maepole-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Custom bowl from Maepole in Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Fuel your travels through nature and history with one of the many local
restaurants, serving up fresh cuisine ranging from Vietnamese and Jamaican to
Lowcountry and soul food. Two of these restaurants even have James Beard level
honors: the upscale [Five and Ten](https://www.fiveandten.com/) and the
no-frills [Weaver
D's](https://www.visitathensga.com/listing/weaver-ds-fine-foods/99/), both
featuring Southern cooking.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/tres-leches-cake-with-strawberry-rhubarb-coulis-at-hierloom-athens-in-athens-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/tres-leches-cake-with-strawberry-rhubarb-coulis-at-hierloom-athens-in-athens-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/tres-leches-cake-with-strawberry-rhubarb-coulis-at-hierloom-athens-in-athens-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-exploring-athens-go-beyond-the-game-in-this-trendy-college-town/tres-leches-cake-with-strawberry-rhubarb-coulis-at-hierloom-athens-in-athens-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Tres leches cake with strawberry rhubarb coulis at Heirloom Athens in
  Athens, GA"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>


If you’re trying to fit in all the sights of Athens and need some healthy food
fast, [Maepole](https://www.maepole.com/) is your best bet. You’ll recognize it
from the street by the bright produce-filled mural on the side and the herb
garden out front. This tasty counter service eatery focuses on food that’s good
for you (no high-fructose corn syrup and no antibiotics in the meat) and good
for the planet (compostable plates and cutlery).

You customize your meal by choosing a base, protein, sides and sauce. What makes
this place memorable is the selection, which includes unusual options like
grass-fed meatballs, black-eyed pea tempeh, sriracha honey and braised cabbage
in coconut milk. Do yourself a favor and pick the whole wheat mac and cheese for
at least one of your sides. Since you’re eating all those veggies, you deserve
something a little decadent.

Finish up with dessert at [Heirloom Athens](https://www.heirloomathens.com/), a
farm-to-table restaurant down the road from Maepole with a seasonal menu.
They’re a great option for dinner, serving everything from pork chops to paella,
but they really shine when it comes to the final course. The desserts sound
complex — goat cheese panna cotta with fig walnut shortbread, tres leches cake
with strawberry rhubarb coulis — but the flavors complement each other
flawlessly, not too heavy or overly sweet.

It's a perfect end to a day trip or weekend in the Classic City.
