---
title: Flowers, Food, and Festivals in York County, SC
image: /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fresh-picked-strawberry-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county.webp
featured: true
category: South Carolina
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: Rock Hill serves up small-town Americana vibes and attractions off the beaten path. 
---

Just over the state line from Charlotte, York County, South Carolina, is a
charming Southern getaway offering plenty of things to do in a laid-back,
relaxed sort of way. Think walkable downtowns with public art, community-driven
festivals, and natural beauty of a kind you won't find anywhere else.

Even though it's a suburb of one of the South's biggest cities, Rock Hill preserves its small-town Americana vibes, and the attractions in and around the city feel off the beaten tourist path. There are some real gems here: the world's largest blooming of a rare lily, spectacular strawberry ice cream when in season, a bohemian French cafe, a Christmas festival inspired by a whimsical cartoonist.

You'll also eat well while exploring thanks to the bevy of farm-fresh produce
and restaurants turning out fun, flavorful dishes like Cheerwine-braised short
ribs.

Here's everything to see and do on a trip to York County.

## Azaleas at Glencairn Garden

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/azaleas-at-glencairn-garden-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/azaleas-at-glencairn-garden-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/azaleas-at-glencairn-garden-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/azaleas-at-glencairn-garden-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Azaleas at Glencairn Garden in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

What began as the private backyard of a civic-minded couple in the late
1920s today welcomes visitors into 11 acres of lovingly landscaped grounds.

Just a few minutes from downtown Rock Hill, [Glencairn
Garden](https://www.cityofrockhill.com/Home/Components/FacilityDirectory/FacilityDirectory/86/151)
shines brightest in late March and April when thousands of azaleas bloom in
clusters of white, mauve, magenta, pale rose, and hot pink.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/more-azaleas-at-glencairn-garden-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/more-azaleas-at-glencairn-garden-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/more-azaleas-at-glencairn-garden-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/more-azaleas-at-glencairn-garden-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Azaleas at Glencairn Garden in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

But there's color year-round. Depending on the season, look for daffodils,
daylilies, wisteria, pansies, peonies, crape myrtle, camellias, and roses, plus
flowering trees like dogwoods, magnolias, and trees, and cherries. The various
fountains add visual interest, and strategically placed benches offer a place to
rest as you wander.

Admission is free!

## Spider Lilies at Landsford Canal

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/spider-lilies-at-landsford-canal-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/spider-lilies-at-landsford-canal-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/spider-lilies-at-landsford-canal-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/spider-lilies-at-landsford-canal-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Spider Lilies at Landsford Canal in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

When the azaleas at Glencairn Garden have faded, another flower takes center
stage in York County. This bloom is much rarer. Have you heard of the rocky
shoals spider lily?

From mid-May to mid-June, the Catawba River at [Landsford Canal State
Park](https://southcarolinaparks.com/landsford-canal) sprouts with islets of
star-like white blossoms, the largest concentration of this kind of flower in
the world.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/abandoned-ship-channel-at-landsford-canal-state-park-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/abandoned-ship-channel-at-landsford-canal-state-park-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/abandoned-ship-channel-at-landsford-canal-state-park-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/abandoned-ship-channel-at-landsford-canal-state-park-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Abandoned Ship Channel at Landsford Canal State Park in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

While you can see them from a viewing platform on the Canal Trail — a 1.5-mile
route past canal ruins that's worth a visit on its own — the best views are from
the water. Sign up for a guided tour with [NC Outdoor
Adventures](https://ncoutdooradventures.org/adventures/spider-lily-kayak-trips/),
and you can step out onto the lily-covered shoals for the most up-close,
immersive experience possible. 

Your guide will share how to navigate the inflatable kayak (which has a tendency
to turn), and then you head down river to the lilies. They form a sort of maze,
so you wind your way among them, trying to avoid the rocks, though, never fear,
the guide bringing up the rear will dislodge you if you get stuck.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/more-spider-lilies-at-landsford-canal-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/more-spider-lilies-at-landsford-canal-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/more-spider-lilies-at-landsford-canal-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/more-spider-lilies-at-landsford-canal-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Spider Lilies at Landsford Canal in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

It's pretty magical, being surrounded by thousands of lilies as you paddle down
the river, a true bucket list experience.

**Local tip:** Stay tuned to the park's [lily watch
webpage](https://southcarolinaparks.com/see-and-do/wildflowers/lily-fest) to see
when the lilies are blooming before you go.

## U-Pick and Strawberry Ice Cream at Bush-N-Vine

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fresh-picked-strawberries-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fresh-picked-strawberries-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fresh-picked-strawberries-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fresh-picked-strawberries-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Fresh picked straweberries at Bush-N-Vine in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

During the warmer months, there's no better way to start your morning than with
a visit to [Bush-N-Vine](https://www.bushnvinefarm.com/).

The family farm grows around 65 fruits and veggies: broccoli, blueberries, bok
choy — you name it. Find what's fresh that season in their store along with
take-home treats like jellies and salsa. Grab lunch or a snack at their cafe and
spread out on one of the picnic tables while the kids play with the swings and
sandbox.

But whatever you do, don't skip a swirl of their extraordinary strawberry ice
cream. It merits a trip to York County all on its own.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/homemade-strawberry-ice-cream-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/homemade-strawberry-ice-cream-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,                                                         /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/homemade-strawberry-ice-cream-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/homemade-strawberry-ice-cream-at-bush-n-vine-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Homemade strawberry ice cream at Bush-N-Vine in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Let's talk strawberries for a minute. It's their claim to fame, what they've
been perfecting since 1979. They harvest them from October to early July with a
u-pick season from April through Mother's Day, weather dependent. 

And the berries really are sweeter and juicier than you get in a store. Owner
Sam Hall explains it this way: "We grow for taste. At the grocery store, their
focus is shelf life, but we're all about flavor."

Come summer, you can pick your own blueberries, blackberries, and eventually
peaches. By fall, it's time for pecans and pumpkins.

Save time to explore the hiking trail around the 175-acre property where you can
admire the wildflowers or see birds darting out of 
upcycled birdhouses.

## Historic Brattonsville and Nearby Sunflowers

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/sunflowers-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/sunflowers-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/sunflowers-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/sunflowers-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Sunflowers"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

A collection of some 30-odd structures dating from the 1760s to the 1850s,
[Historic Brattonsville](https://chmuseums.org/brattonsville/) preserves a slice
of Carolina Backcountry life on an 800-acre working farm about 12 miles
southwest of Rock Hill. Living history interpreters in period clothing show what
it was like to work, play, cook, and keep house here during the pivotal years
from the American Revolution to the Civil War. There's a Revolutionary War
battlefield site, animals like sheep and Devon cattle, and reenactments and
other events throughout the year.

Just down the road is the Draper Wildlife Management Area. The preserve has
three lakes for fishing, but you want to go in late June and early July when
they have something even better — around [20 acres of
sunflowers](https://www.visityorkcounty.com/blog/post/discover-the-sunflower-fields-in-york-county-south-carolina/)
blooming as merry as you please in two fields. It's free to visit and easy to
add on to your trip to Historic Brattonsville, which allows re-entry the same
day if you show your receipt.

## Anne Springs Close Greenway

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/goats-at-anne-springs-close-greenway-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/goats-at-anne-springs-close-greenway-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/goats-at-anne-springs-close-greenway-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/goats-at-anne-springs-close-greenway-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Goats at Anne Springs Close Greenway in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Not far from downtown Fort Mill, the [Anne Springs Close
Greenway](https://www.ascgreenway.org/) boasts 40 miles of trails spread across
2,100 acres. You'll find a suspension bridge, lakes and ponds, historic sites
like log cabins and a replica grist mill, a handcrafted wooden playground, and
even a farm. The cows, goats, alpacas, llamas, and horses accept pets with
varying degrees of interest. The rabbits, pigs, and chickens do their thing as
you view from a distance.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/bridge-at-anne-springs-close-greenway-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/bridge-at-anne-springs-close-greenway-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/bridge-at-anne-springs-close-greenway-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/bridge-at-anne-springs-close-greenway-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Bridge at Anne Springs Close Greenway in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

You'll want to enter first at the Lake Haigler entrance with its expansive
visitors center and maps so you can orient yourself. There's a nice trail here
from the bridge to the dairy barn. To get to the 18-acre children's farm, you'll
want to drive to the Greenway Stables entrance.

The greenway charges daily admission and hosts special events throughout the
year, from concerts to campouts, so be sure to check out their
[calendar](https://www.ascgreenway.org/events/) before you go.

## ChristmasVille in Rock Hill

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/christmasville-in-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/christmasville-in-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/christmasville-in-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/christmasville-in-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="ChristmasVille in Rock Hill in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="615"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Rock Hill goes all out for the most wonderful time of the year. 

Held on the first weekend of December,
[ChristmasVille](https://www.christmasvillerockhill.com/) includes some 70
festive events. Some examples include ice sculpture demonstrations, a
gingerbread contest, storytime with Santa, and sledding down Main Street.
There's caroling and calls to the North Pole and spontaneous snow flurries. Pure
Christmas joy.

The craft market is crammed with over 80 vendors selling everything from cupcake
candles to artisan cutting boards, so you're sure to find something for that
hard-to-buy-for friend.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/performer-at-christmasville-in-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/performer-at-christmasville-in-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/performer-at-christmasville-in-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/performer-at-christmasville-in-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Performer at ChristmasVille in Rock Hill in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Another perk, most activities are completely free: wreath tossing, cookie
decorating, a parade, a yuletide carnival complete with carousel, Ferris wheel,
and inflatables. You can even win free prizes with a gnome-themed scavenger hunt
for kids as well as adults. There's a gnome-themed playground too.

It's worth mentioning why gnomes crop up so much at ChristmasVille because the
casual visitor may be unaware. 

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/mural-on-side-of-library-at-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/mural-on-side-of-library-at-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/mural-on-side-of-library-at-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/mural-on-side-of-library-at-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Mural on side of Library at Rock Hill in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="450"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The festival was inspired in part by Vernon Grant, the illustrator of Rice
Krispies' famous Snap, Crackle, and Pop characters. You can see his whimsical
illustrations all around the festival, including several of Santa. There's also
a mural honoring his work on the side of the York County Library, where you can
stop in to make free ornaments.

## Come-See-Me Festival

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/comeseeme-festival-at-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/comeseeme-festival-at-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/comeseeme-festival-at-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/comeseeme-festival-at-rock-hill-in-york-county-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Come-See-Me Festival at Rock Hill in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Inspired by the azaleas at Glencairn Garden, the 10-day [Come-See-Me
Festival](https://www.comeseeme.org/) coincides with the annual bloom each year
in early April. It's a relaxed affair with small-town vibes. Events include a
barbecue cook-off, a teddy bear tea for kids, a parade, a Beach Bash with oldies
and food trucks, and more.

If you'll be in town for the azaleas — and you shouldn't miss them — check out
what events are on. They've [already started planning for next
year](https://www.comeseeme.org/events/). 

## Old Town Rock Hill

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/old-town-rock-hill-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/old-town-rock-hill-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/old-town-rock-hill-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/old-town-rock-hill-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Old Town Rock Hill in York County, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The main downtown to explore is in Rock Hill. Old Town is the hub of
ChristmasVille and most events, and it's lined with quaint shops, vibrant
murals, and historic buildings. 

The Mercantile, which also has an on-site cafe, is particularly charming as you
can see above, and the area is bustling on Saturdays from May to October with
the farmers market. Visit on the first Friday of the month to find  pop-up
markets in little alleyways with eye-catching art of all styles.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/jail-no-bail-exhibit-in-rock-hill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/jail-no-bail-exhibit-in-rock-hill-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/jail-no-bail-exhibit-in-rock-hill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/jail-no-bail-exhibit-in-rock-hill-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Jail, No Bail Exhibit in Rock Hill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Be sure to visit "[Jail, No
Bail](https://www.visityorkcounty.com/listing/jail-no-bail-exhibit/3463/),"
which chronicles the saga of the Friendship 9, a group of African-American men
arrested after a sit-in at a segregated Rock Hill five-and-dime. The free
exhibit is heart-wrenching at times, but it will draw you in and shine a light
on a moment in Civil Rights history that most of us don't know about.

## More York County Downtowns

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/downtown-york-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/downtown-york-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/downtown-york-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/downtown-york-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Downtown York, SC"                                                                                                                             width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

While you're in the area, it's fun to stroll through York and Fort Mill. They
both have small but cute historic downtowns. York, pictured above, is the
smaller of the two but easy to swing by on your way back from Bush-N-Vine.

Stop into the 12,000-square-foot Yorkville Marketplace for vintage finds or
visit one of the several boutiques nearby.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/downtown-fort-mill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/downtown-fort-mill-sc-320.webp 320w,                               /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/downtown-fort-mill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/downtown-fort-mill-sc-665.webp 665w"                       sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Downtown Fort Mill, SC"                                                                                                                             width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Fort Mill often hosts events downtown, and they have several great eateries that
you'll want to check out, so save some time for window shopping while you're
here. There's even a pottery studio if you want to craft your own masterpiece
from clay.

## Replay Brewing

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/replay-brewing-in-fort-mill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/replay-brewing-in-fort-mill-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/replay-brewing-in-fort-mill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/replay-brewing-in-fort-mill-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Replay Brewing in Fort Mill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

[Replay Brewing](https://www.replaybrewing.com/) is your go-to spot if you're seeking a light lager or hoppy IPA.
They even offer beer flights if you're feeling indecisive (or adventurous) and
want to try a few brews. 

It's more about the libations here. The food is mainly bar bites like soft
pretzels and some rather good hot dogs. But they do have some very fun
entertainment by way of throwback arcade games.

Enjoy your drink while crushing Lunar Lander or Space Invaders or other beloved
vintage game of choice. Most games are free with your drink, but they also have
pinball machines for a nominal fee, except on Monday when pinball is free — and
I hear it gets pretty wild.

## Where To Eat

When you get hungry between the farms, festivals, and flower fields, here are
the York County restaurants you need to try.

### The Improper Pig

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/the-improper-pig-fort-mill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/the-improper-pig-fort-mill-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/the-improper-pig-fort-mill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/the-improper-pig-fort-mill-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Dinner at the Improper Pig in Fort Mill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Sometimes you're so hungry that only a plate of meat will do. When that happens,
slide into a booth at [The Improper Pig](https://theimproperpigfm.com/).

Located in downtown Fort Mill, the kitchen turns out smoked meats of many kinds
(chicken, pork, andouille sausage, and brisket) that you can dress with one of
the six sauces at your table. They also serve burgers, ribs, steak, wings, ahi
tuna, and other fan favorites. Vegans aren't left out of the fun with smoked
tofu platters, a portobello sandwich, and a respectable salad lineup.

Sides are typical Southern comfort fare. You can't go wrong with the hush
puppies or the creamy macaroni and cheese.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/strawberry-cobbler-at-the-improper-pig-fort-mill-sc.jpg-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/strawberry-cobbler-at-the-improper-pig-fort-mill-sc.jpg-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/strawberry-cobbler-at-the-improper-pig-fort-mill-sc.jpg-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/strawberry-cobbler-at-the-improper-pig-fort-mill-sc.jpg-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Straberry cobbler at the Improper Pig in Fort Mill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="477"
  loading="lazy"
/>

While the platters are reasonably portioned, the desserts are shareable, to say
the least. The star of the show is the cobbler of the month with seasonal fruit
stewed in syrup until it becomes its best self, then topped with a cookie-like
crust and ice cream, all served warm in a cast iron skillet.

### Poppyseed Kitchen

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/poppyseed-kitchen-in-fort-mill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/poppyseed-kitchen-in-fort-mill-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/poppyseed-kitchen-in-fort-mill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/poppyseed-kitchen-in-fort-mill-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Poppyseed Kitchen in Fort Mill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="511"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The line at [Poppyseed Kitchen](https://www.poppyseedkitchen.com/) on the weekend will give you an idea how popular
their breakfast is. Make a reservation in advance if you can, and prepare to be
delighted by the lemon ricotta and blackberry jam stuffed French toast or
succulent braised beef brisket with rosemary potato hash and tomato onion jam. 

They have healthy options like soup and oatmeal (not your mama's oatmeal, but a
bowlful topped with cheddar, kale, sausage, egg, and a roasted tomato red pepper
sauce for a zesty finish.

Try to save room for something from the bakery. It takes their chef three days
to make their legendary croissants, so those come highly recommended, but you
can't go wrong with anything in the pastry case.

### FM Eatery

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fm-eatery-in-fort-mill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fm-eatery-in-fort-mill-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fm-eatery-in-fort-mill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/fm-eatery-in-fort-mill-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="FM Eatery in Fort Mill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="496"
  loading="lazy"
/>

For an elegant dinner in downtown Fort Mill, [FM Eatery](https://www.theflipsiderestaurant.com/fm-eatery) is spot on. Small plates
range from bacon-wrapped dates to smoked burrata with sage ginger apricot jam to
mussels with smoked tomatoes and chorizo broth.

The best thing on the menu? Probably the fall-off-your-fork tender beef short
ribs braised in Cheerwine and studded with flecks of peanut brittle before being
cozily settled on a bed of grits. The dessert list is also noteworthy: pots de
crème, chocolate banana brulée, and more. Menu items change with the season, so
there's always something new when you go.

If you're sampling a bit here and there, it adds up (for both your wallet and
your stomach), but it's a thoroughly pleasant culinary adventure that's well
worth the splurge.

### Amélie's French Bakery & Cafe

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/amélies-french-bakery-and-cafe-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/amélies-french-bakery-and-cafe-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/amélies-french-bakery-and-cafe-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/amélies-french-bakery-and-cafe-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Amélie's French Bakery & Cafe in Rock Hill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Born in Charlotte, ​[​Amélie's French Bakery &
Cafe](https://wanderahead.com/article/amelies-french-bakery-the-cutest-cafe-in-the-south/)
has one outpost in South Carolina, and you'll find it in downtown Rock Hill.
Browse macarons, eclairs, and tiny cakes in a rainbow of colors, and then try to
choose only two or three to order at the end.

Amélie's also does soups, salads, and sandwiches. The bread is excellent
(they're a bakery, remember), and coffee is top-notch too. 

Head upstairs if the ground level is crowded, and notice all the quirky
French-inspired details along the way like Mona Lisa with an eye patch on the
Mona Lisa and the glowing Eiffel Tower above a cutout of a 17th-century
aristocrat, probably named Louis.

### Flipside Restaurant

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/flipside-restaurant-in-rock-hill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/flipside-restaurant-in-rock-hill-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/flipside-restaurant-in-rock-hill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/flipside-restaurant-in-rock-hill-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Flipside Restaurant in Rock Hill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Brunch at [Flipside
Restaurant](https://www.theflipsiderestaurant.com/flipside-restaurant) means
Southern classics like biscuits and gravy, chicken and waffles, and more than a
few dishes with pimento cheese. If you're feeling fancy, try the lobster omelet
or perfectly cooked prime rib. There are also plenty of side options if you want
to assemble your own breakfast from sausage, egg, or what have you.

The service is friendly, and the various bright paintings add a touch of
elegance to the warm and homey space. They do lunch and dinner too.

### Kounter Dining

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/kounter-dining-in-rock-hill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/kounter-dining-in-rock-hill-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/kounter-dining-in-rock-hill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/kounter-dining-in-rock-hill-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Kounter Dining in Rock Hill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

At the aptly named [Kounter](https://www.kounterdining.com/), you can sit at the
same counter where the Friendship 9 made history back in 1961 (see their story
above). 

The menu is eclectic, varying from bourbon BBQ nachos to lobster gnocchi to
seared scallops with candied bacon jam. Much of it evokes Southern staples but
with an elevated twist like the parmesan creamed corn or peanut butter pie with
rum caramel. 

If you haven't tried it, order a Cheerwine float, made in the Carolinas.

### Blend Riverwalk

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/blend-riverwalk-in-rock-hill-sc-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/blend-riverwalk-in-rock-hill-sc-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/blend-riverwalk-in-rock-hill-sc-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/blend-riverwalk-in-rock-hill-sc-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Blend Riverwalk in Rock Hill, SC"
  width="665"
  height="428"
  loading="lazy"
/>

While everything above is delicious, you may have noticed it's not the most
low-cal. Sometimes when you travel, you just need a smoothie or something with
vegetables. But you also want it to taste good because this is vacation, after
all.

Welcome to [Blend Riverwalk](https://blendriverwalk.com/). This Fort Mill eatery dishes up açai bowls, grain
bowls, wraps, salads, smoothies, and more with the freshest ingredients.
Caitlin's Crunch Wrap is popular, the coconut sriracha nicely complementing the
slaw, as is Ava's Summer Special Wrap, with fresh mozzarella, goat cheese, Greek
chicken, pesto, tomatoes, couscous, and hummus.

Right outside, the Riverwalk beckons if want to explore along the Catawba River. 


## Hotels in York County

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/cambria-hotel-fort-mill-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/cambria-hotel-fort-mill-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/cambria-hotel-fort-mill-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-05-26-flowers-food-festivals-in-york-county-nc/cambria-hotel-fort-mill-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Cambria Hotel Fort Mill"
  width="665"
  height="427"
  loading="lazy"
/>

You've got plenty of options for your York County visit. Staying in Rock Hill or
Fort Mill will mean you're central to most attractions, and hotel prices tend to
be affordable. 

[Staybridge Suites in Rock Hill](https://www.ihg.com/staybridge/hotels/us/en/rock-hill/rkhgb/hoteldetail) offers full suites with kitchens, handy when you
want to wash and pare your Bush-N-Vine berries. Breakfast is complimentary and a
decent spread, including healthy options like oatmeal, hard-boiled eggs, and
fruit.

[Cambria Hotel Fort Mill](https://www.choicehotels.com/south-carolina/fort-mill/cambria-hotels/sc565), pictured above, is more upscale. No free breakfast, but
you get better room furnishings and an ultra modern bathroom. There's still a
mini fridge and microwave for those quick in-room snacks.

The [Courtyard by Marriott in Fort Mill](https://www.marriott.com/en-us/hotels/cltft-courtyard-charlotte-fort-mill-sc/overview/) is comfortable, also equipped with a
walk-in shower, microwave, and mini fridge like the Cambria. They have a
particularly nice location in Kingsley Village, a 150,000-square-foot mixed-use
development home to Replay Brewing and several other restaurants and retailers.
