---
title: Why Dayton, Ohio, Is the Outdoor Destination You've Been Dreaming Of
image: /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/dayton-ohio.webp
featured: true
category: Ohio
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: With free trails, gardens, streams, and meadows, Dayton has a lot of outdoors to offer.
---

Dayton is better known for its connection to aviation. Home of the Wright
brothers, the area boasts over a dozen museums and memorials honoring flight,
and those are definitely worth a look if you're in town. But if you focus on the
ground instead of the clouds, you'll find just as much to explore. Surprisingly
for such a cosmopolitan city, Dayton boasts an expansive park system of trails,
gardens, streams and meadows, all free and open to the public.

## A Day Out in Nature

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/view-from-tower-at-cox-arboretum-in-dayton-ohio-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/view-from-tower-at-cox-arboretum-in-dayton-ohio-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/view-from-tower-at-cox-arboretum-in-dayton-ohio-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/view-from-tower-at-cox-arboretum-in-dayton-ohio-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="View from the viewing tower at Cox Arboretum in Dayton, Ohio"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Whether your idea of fun is horseback riding or fishing, there's a place for it
in one of the 19 parks spread over thousands of acres across the city. In
summer, the gardens are looking their best, a backdrop for picnics and selfies.
In winter, skating and holiday events take over. Check the Five Rivers
MetroParks' [calendar of
activities](https://www.metroparks.org/programs-events-finder/) to see what's
happening during your visit. They offer everything from night hikes and kayak
tours to photography classes and farming demonstrations.

If you're traveling as a family, the [Cox
Arboretum](https://www.metroparks.org/places-to-go/cox-arboretum/) is a
must-see. It has an on-site center where kids can learn about conservation and
biodiversity, plus a seasonal butterfly house opening in July. Outdoors, a
children's maze winds through 1,175 boxwoods. Further out, an impressive Douglas
Fir tree tower leads to an observation deck 45 feet up. It's worth the climb for
sweeping views of the surrounding landscape.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/aullwood-garden-metropark-in-dayton-ohio-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/aullwood-garden-metropark-in-dayton-ohio-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/aullwood-garden-metropark-in-dayton-ohio-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/aullwood-garden-metropark-in-dayton-ohio-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Aullwood Garden Metropark in Dayton, Ohio"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

For a more grown-up greenspace, Aullwood Garden MetroPark has a pleasant
mile-long path through woodland gardens listed on the National Register of
Historic Places. Don't expect topiaries or artificial grottoes. It's a natural
setting with hills and a prairie, accented by wildflowers and the meandering
Wiles Creek. Some of the sycamore trees on the former estate are more than 600
years old. In season, the daffodils, lilies and roses add a splash of color.

When you're hungry, stop by the [2nd Street
Market](https://www.metroparks.org/places-to-go/2nd-street-market/), a park that
operates as a farmers market year-round, selling local produce, baked goods and
more. You can buy a ready-to-eat meal from one of the many vendors serving up
farm-to-table food or get the ingredients for your own creation. They have live
music on Saturdays and non-food items, too, if you're looking to pick up a
handmade souvenir.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/riverscape-metro-park-dayton-ohio-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/riverscape-metro-park-dayton-ohio-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/riverscape-metro-park-dayton-ohio-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/riverscape-metro-park-dayton-ohio-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="RiverScape MetroPark in Dayton, Ohio"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Also downtown, the [RiverScape
MetroPark](https://www.metroparks.org/places-to-go/riverscape/) is perfect for a
longer walk or bike ride along the river. Don't miss the several invention
stations along the route that showcase what Dayton residents have made in a
three-dimensional, artistic fashion. The replica of the Wright plane might not
surprise you, but the pop-tops, cash register and ice cube tray are pretty
fascinating.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/wegerzyn-gardens-in-dayton-ohio-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/wegerzyn-gardens-in-dayton-ohio-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/wegerzyn-gardens-in-dayton-ohio-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/wegerzyn-gardens-in-dayton-ohio-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Wegerzyn Gardens in Dayton, Ohio"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Metered parking is free on the weekends and after 6 p.m. during the week, so
stay awhile. If you're lucky enough to visit in the summer, don't miss the Five
River Fountain of Lights show each hour. It's one of the largest fountains in
the world — enhanced with colored lights at night — shooting streams of water
400 feet across the Great Miami River.

## Evening Entertainment

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/wegerzyn-gardens-dayton-ohio-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/wegerzyn-gardens-dayton-ohio-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/wegerzyn-gardens-dayton-ohio-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/wegerzyn-gardens-dayton-ohio-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Wegerzyn Gardens in Dayton, Ohio"
  width="665"
  height="442"
  loading="lazy"
/>

End your day at [Wegerzyn
Gardens](https://www.metroparks.org/places-to-go/wegerzyn-gardens/). The formal
gardens include water features, a trellis and statuary, popular with brides and
prom couples but often less crowded toward sunset. Take a stroll on the Swamp
Forest Boardwalk, eerily tranquil just before dusk, though there's plenty of
life below the water.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/little-mermaid-decor-at-dayton-playhouse-in-dayton-ohio-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/little-mermaid-decor-at-dayton-playhouse-in-dayton-ohio-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/little-mermaid-decor-at-dayton-playhouse-in-dayton-ohio-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-why-dayton-ohio-is-the-outdoor-destination-youve-been-dreaming-of/little-mermaid-decor-at-dayton-playhouse-in-dayton-ohio-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt=""
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

This park has another gem that sets it apart from the others: the [Dayton
Playhouse](http://wordpress.thedaytonplayhouse.com). There's a reason the
theater has been performing to packed audiences for 60 years. The actors are
talented, and every seat in the house is a good one. Better still, you get to
hobnob with the cast at the end of the show.
