---
title: Why Longwood Gardens Is America's Most Beautiful Garden
image: /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/longwood-gardens.webp
featured: true
category: Pennsylvania
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: Check out this lavish du Pont garden for orchid-filled conservatories and gigantic fountains.
---

Nothing says spring like the first blush of flowers ushering in the season, but
winter or no, they're already blooming at [Longwood
Gardens](https://longwoodgardens.org/). Once a wealthy industrialist's summer
estate and before that, a Quaker farm, this Pennsylvania retreat has grown over
centuries into the showplace we see today: more than 1,000 acres of trees,
topiaries, fountains, and flowers.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/display-at-longwood-gardens-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/display-at-longwood-gardens-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/display-at-longwood-gardens-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/display-at-longwood-gardens-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Eden-like display at Longwood Gardens in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania"
  width="665"
  height="445"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Even in dour weather, Longwood recreates Eden in its 20 indoor gardens. From
room to room, climates vary from tropical South American to arid Mediterranean,
sometimes with sharp juxtaposition that lends a touch of unreality. Sounds of
water and distant cathedral notes from the ballroom organ mingle with the
scents, a backdrop to the visual pageant.

Each Conservatory garden offers something different. The Orangery is elegant and
formal with broad leaves, bright colors, and symmetrical plantings flanking
manicured lawns. The Silver Garden is more subtle, dealing in shades of dusky
blues and rock-studded greens.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/conservatory-at-longwood-gardens-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/conservatory-at-longwood-gardens-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/conservatory-at-longwood-gardens-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/conservatory-at-longwood-gardens-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Conservatory at Longwood Gardens in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania"
  width="665"
  height="445"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Some of Longwood's treasures here are unexpected, such as the rare, palm-like
_Encephalartos woodii_, whose ancestors fed the dinosaurs in the Jurassic
period. Or the largest green wall on the continent that leads to award-winning
restrooms. And don't skip the whimsical fountains of the Children's Garden. Give
yourself at least three hours to see it all.

## Enjoy Orchids and Other Greenhouse Gems

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/snapdragons-hydrangeas-and-other-flowers-at-longwood-gardens-in-kennett-square-pennsylvania-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/snapdragons-hydrangeas-and-other-flowers-at-longwood-gardens-in-kennett-square-pennsylvania-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/snapdragons-hydrangeas-and-other-flowers-at-longwood-gardens-in-kennett-square-pennsylvania-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/snapdragons-hydrangeas-and-other-flowers-at-longwood-gardens-in-kennett-square-pennsylvania-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Snapdragons, hydrangeas, and other flowers at Longwood Gardens in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania"
  width="665"
  height="445"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Most of the plants used in the displays are grown in production greenhouses on
site.

Expecting rainy weather? Don't worry. Longwood has a maze of indoor gardens and
conservatories. Inside, you'll find an array of dogwoods, poppies, hydrangeas,
and jasmine. There's even a Mediterranean-inspired garden interlaced with
canals.

And, of course, the orchids: They have around 6,200 in total with only a few
hundred of the best on display. That changes each March during Orchid
Extravaganza when Longwood imports thousands of orchids from around the world.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/hanging-hydrangeas-longwood-gardens-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/hanging-hydrangeas-longwood-gardens-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/hanging-hydrangeas-longwood-gardens-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/hanging-hydrangeas-longwood-gardens-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Hanging Hydrangeas at Longwood Gradens in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania"
  width="665"
  height="445"
  loading="lazy"
/>

There are hanging baskets dripping with orchids. There are towers with orchids.
They fill two ponds in the East Conservatory like orchid meadows.

## See the Fountains and Outdoor Gardens

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/main-fountain-garden-longwood-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/main-fountain-garden-longwood-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/main-fountain-garden-longwood-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/main-fountain-garden-longwood-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Main Fountain Garden at Longwood Gradens in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania"
  width="665"
  height="445"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Outdoors, witch hazel and winterberry add color to less floral scenery, but the
stripped-down landscape lets you glimpse the bones of the garden, which lays
claim to the most champion trees in Pennsylvania. Early blossoms start showing
themselves in March: purple crocuses, yellow winter aconites, blue squill, and
glory-of-the-snow.

In the summertime, the Main Fountain Garden uses 1,719 hydraulic jets to spray
thousands of gallons of water into the air daily for the Festival of Fountains. Go at
night when they up the ante with synchronized lights, music, and even fire.

## Check out the Longwood Estate

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/peirce-du-pont-house-at-longwood-garden-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/peirce-du-pont-house-at-longwood-garden-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/peirce-du-pont-house-at-longwood-garden-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/peirce-du-pont-house-at-longwood-garden-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt=""
  width="665"
  height="445"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Just past the conservatories, you'll find the Peirce-du Pont house, the oldest
building on the property. It's not a grand château but a Quaker-built farmhouse
from 1730, now wrapped in ivy and wisteria. Inside, you won't find chandeliers
or velvet settees — just a bright conservatory brimming with tropical plants.


Not all of the history is gone, though. Step further in and you'll find small
exhibits with photographs, videos, and early plans that trace Longwood's
beginnings. If you're feeling warm or just need a quiet spot to pause, the House
makes a perfect place to rest a spell.

## Enjoy the Holidays at Longwood Gardens

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/pool-at-longwood-gardens-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/pool-at-longwood-gardens-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/pool-at-longwood-gardens-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-17-longing-for-longwood/pool-at-longwood-gardens-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Conservatory pool at Longwood Gradens in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania"
  width="665"
  height="445"
  loading="lazy"
/>

It's a peaceful time of year, late January through March. The season leading up
to it, however, is their busiest with the fiercely popular A Longwood Christmas.
The spectacle includes more than 50 lavishly decorated Christmas trees. Though
most of Longwood's outdoor fountains, including its five-acre Main Fountain
Garden restored this year, remain closed October through April, the water
curtain at the Open Air Theatre dances to sound and light throughout the holiday
season. Flower lovers won't be disappointed, either.

The event runs in conjunction with Christmas in Kennett, a town-wide festival
that includes a shuttle on Saturdays from downtown Kennett Square where
travelers can enjoy strolling carolers, dining, and a holiday market.

If you go, visit closer to Thanksgiving to avoid the thickest crowds. If you
want to have the place to yourself, go after New Year's weekend. It's
serene, especially after a new snowfall. You can enjoy the quietness of
your thoughts.
