---
title: "Southern Seoul: Gwinnett County Serves Up Korean Flavors, Food Tour"
image: /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-food-in-gwinnett-county.webp
featured: true
category: Georgia
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: Learn how Gwinnett County became Georgia's unofficial K-Town and home to world-class Korean cuisine.
---

When in-the-know Atlantans crave the best selection of Korean food, varied and
satisfying, they head northeast to the suburbs and the unofficial home of
Georgia’s K-Town: Gwinnett County.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/tteokbokki-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/tteokbokki-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/tteokbokki-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/tteokbokki-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Tteok-bokki, a spicy Korean dish"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Plenty of locals will tell you about Buford Highway, a concentration of
international fare ranging from Bangladeshi to Peruvian, situated just outside
Atlanta city limits. But comparatively few know the treasure that awaits if you
simply keep driving. Further up Buford Highway (or I-85, if you prefer), where
the traffic and housing prices ebb and outlet stores proliferate, is another
foodie destination, less fusion, more authentic. If you love Korean food — or
have always wanted to try the real deal — this place belongs on your bucket
list.


## How Gwinnett County Became a Hot Spot for Korean Cuisine

The Korean American Association of Greater Atlanta, now headquartered in
Gwinnett County, opened its first office in 1968 off Buford Highway in
Doraville, then the hub for the many Korean Americans moving to Georgia. The
real estate boom that hit the Gwinnett Place area in the '90s brought an influx
of new businesses, in particular, mega-sized Korean supermarkets, to some of the
county’s larger cities like Duluth and Suwanee. Those stores provided the
ingredients for early restaurateurs and the comfort food of home for the
hundreds of families who eventually settled there.

Andrew Choi, who moved from South Korea to Duluth in 1996, remembers seeing
Gwinnett County’s rise as the epicenter of Korean food. The first meal he had on
arrival was at a Korean restaurant in Doraville. His family wanted to eat
something familiar, he explains. Now, his parents own their own cafe in Duluth.

Though sometimes informally referred to as Korea Town, there’s not one address
you can plug into your GPS to get there. Pockets of it flourish around Pleasant
Hill Road, Duluth Highway and Lawrenceville-Suwanee Road. Look for a strip mall
anchored by a Korean grocery store, and you’re there.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-food-gwinnett-county-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-food-gwinnett-county-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-food-gwinnett-county-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-food-gwinnett-county-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Korean food in Gwinnett County, GA"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

But the Gwinnett Place area, at the junction of I-85 and Pleasant Hill Road, is
a convenient place to begin your exploration. While the landmark Gwinnett Place
Mall is declining and up for sale — despite its famous appearance in _Stranger
Things_ — the Korean community surrounding it is thriving. You'll find a half
dozen Korean markets, including the international H Mart chain and a two-story
Mega Mart. Nearly a quarter of the restaurants there specialize in Korean food
specifically. You can dine at a different spot each day for a month, plus
breakfast, lunch and dinner on weekends, and still have more to sample.

A native of Seoul who now calls Duluth home, Sarah Park describes the area as
“vibrant,” full of conversation, commerce and, yes, loads of food.

“I love how the Korean culinary scene here has so much variety,” she says.
“Fried chicken joints, comfort food restaurants, homestyle cooking, fusion
cuisine with other Asian cuisines, bakeries and cafes, snack places, buffets and
small catering businesses — you name it, you can find it here. Everything is
made from scratch. You can walk into a Korean restaurant and immediately smell
food balanced with harmonious seasoning and lots of deep, rich broth that gives
warmth.”

It’s the warmth that envelops you when you step inside one of the myriad
eateries cooking up favorites like _sundubu-jjigae_, soft tofu stew, and
_gamjatang_, spicy pork bone soup. Korean street food, meanwhile, is less about
hearth and home and more about indulging on the go. Case in point is
_myungrang_, a rice flour battered and fried hot dog on a stick, clustered with
potatoes, rolled in sugar crystals or infused with squid ink, depending on your
preference. You can pick up one, or more likely three, in the back corner of
Duluth’s Super H Mart at the counter service restaurant appropriately named
Myungrang Hot Dog.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-hotdogs-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-hotdogs-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-hotdogs-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-hotdogs-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Korean hot dogs" width="665" height="573"
  loading="lazy" />

Then there’s cafe culture, every bit as serious as any patisserie in France.
Koreans often retire to a cafe for sweets or coffee after dinner, explains Choi,
who worked on Cafe Rothem’s menu development when it opened in 2016. He helped
create their signature item, the “watteok,” a mix between a Belgian waffle and
the pancake-style Korean street snack, _hotteok_. When you cut into the center,
cinnamon and sugar ooze out, to the delight of Instagrammers. But the watteok is
rather the exception when it comes to sweetness. Most of the area’s Korean
bakeries feature subtler flavors like green tea, sweet potato and egg custard.
Even _patbingsu_, a popular after-supper treat constituting a mountain of shaved
ice topped with fruit, syrups, candies and more, isn't overly decadent, the
first ingredient, after all, being ice. Tree Story Bakery & Cafe serves a
traditional version decked out with red beans, mochi, cereal, condensed milk and
mixed grain powder.

While not everyone likes the red beans — I still don't — the bakery attracts a
diverse clientele. Like other restaurants on the local Korean dining scene, it
initially grew with the support of local Koreans. But you'll see a range of
folks there today: students enjoying free Wi-Fi, families sipping drinks,
out-of-towners gawking at the rows of elaborate pastries. More than a few are
snapping photos before eating, the desire to somehow preserve all that beauty
being one that crosses cultures.

## How To Choose a Korean Eatery

Choosing one place to eat among the many is a challenge. An early arrival to the
culinary scene, [Jang Su
Jang](https://www.exploregwinnett.org/listing/jang-su-jang/449/) is something of
a safe bet, the sort of place the local visitors center recommends to tourists.
Opened in 2005, the restaurant specializes in homestyle Korean cuisine. A visit
there involves a dizzying procession of dishes, eight of which are sides, or
_banchan_, intended to complement the flavor of the main course. The servers are
friendly, happy to tell you what each dish is and how to eat it — how to soak
the rice in _seolleongtang_ soup, how the cabbage leaves for _bossam jungsik_
should fold around the steamed pork, jalapeños and sliced radishes to make a
wrap.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/dish-at-jang-su-jang-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/dish-at-jang-su-jang-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/dish-at-jang-su-jang-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/dish-at-jang-su-jang-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Traditional Korean food at Jang Su Jang in Gwinnett County, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Traditionally, the dishes would be shared among the family, says
second-generation owner Stephen Cho. Most patrons today order their own entree,
but if you’re eating with friends, it’s hard not to let your fork stray to
someone else’s plate, drawn by the unusual flavors and scents, the color and
quantity of dishes.

“A lot of people think Korean food is just Korean barbecue nowadays,” says Cho.
“Our family wants to keep this traditional style of Korean dishes.”

That’s not to knock Korean barbecue, something of a gateway dish for aspiring
foodies into the world of Korean cuisine. And it's everywhere in K-Town: [K-BBQ
Factory](https://kbbqstory.com/), Mapo Korean BBQ, [Honey Pig
Atlanta](https://www.honeypigusa.com/), [9292 Korean
BBQ](https://9292koreanbbq.com/). And those are just the ones right by the
Gwinnett Place Mall. You might think that makes it easier to try a handful of
them on a weekend trip. Don’t be fooled. Each could stand alone as a meal to
last a day.

Wherever you go, it’s the typical Korean barbecue setup: thin slices of
marinated and raw beef and pork, which you cook in an open grill at the center
of the table. Side dishes, called _banchan_, arrive in quick succession. You’re
welcome to ask for free refills of those, but if you’ve opted for
all-you-can-eat, you don’t want to fill up on sides.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-bbq-in-gwinnett-county-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-bbq-in-gwinnett-county-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-bbq-in-gwinnett-county-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-bbq-in-gwinnett-county-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Korean barbecue in Gwinnett County, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Park recommends choosing the combo option rather than à la carte or unlimited.
"The beauty of it is there's so many different portions of the meat that you can
try," she says. Or go for the most different of them all — intestines barbecue.
It's the house specialty at Gop Chang on Fire. The taste is hard to pinpoint:
rich, umami. Even if you don't like it, you're guaranteed to make a memory ...
"that time I ate intestines in Georgia."

Korean fried chicken is another must when you’re here. Like barbecue, this
classic dish has become almost ubiquitous across America. In some ways, it’s the
same everywhere, pleasantly predictable. In other ways, each restaurant takes a
different spin on it. With a casual lunch counter vibe and chicken piled high on
wooden plates,
[Harue](https://www.order.store/store/harue-doraville/cbGe7thqSf6pstAofJKW7g)
offers a no-fuss approach. It’s good food at fair prices. Or as their mantra
emblazoned on the back wall calls it: "tasty and affordable food to enjoy with
family and friends." Beyond fried chicken, they serve _odeng_, fish cakes;
_gimbap_, bite-sized seaweed-wrapped rice rolls; and _tteok-bokki_, chewy,
oblong rice cakes coated in a pepper paste. It’s the perfect spot for lunch and
right next-door to [Cafe Rothem](https://www.caferothem.com/) when you’re ready
for dessert.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-fried-chicken-at-harue-atlanta-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-fried-chicken-at-harue-atlanta-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-fried-chicken-at-harue-atlanta-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/korean-fried-chicken-at-harue-atlanta-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Fried chicken, sushi, and tteok-bokki at Harue in Doraville, GA"
  width="665"
  height="887"
  loading="lazy"
/>

## Where To Eat the Best Korean Food in Gwinnett County

“Best” is certainly a relative term, but there are a few places you definitely
don’t want to miss while you’re in the area. Here’s a quick roundup of must-try
Korean spots in Gwinnett County.

### Myungrang Hot Dog

Shopping the fresh seafood, exotic snacks and vast selection of produce inside
the Super H Mart can work up an appetite. Head to the back of the store near the
home goods section for a _myungrang_, the Korean version of a corn dog. No corn
here, but squid ink, sugar and deep-fried potatoes are optional add-ons for your
dog. Or get a dog that’s simply filled with mozzarella cheese.

### Cafe Rothem

With most of the local Korean restaurants steering away from fusion, [Cafe
Rothem](https://www.caferothem.com/) isn't afraid to blur the lines. Their
"watteok" is a prime example, part Belgian waffle, part Korean pancake. The cafe
smells of hazelnuts when you enter. Linger over a cup of misu latte, catch an
open mic night, or join their book club (books in Korean and English line the
walls).

### Tree Story Bakery & Cafe

Part of the Park Village Shopping Center, where you’ll also find an H Mart and
several Korean restaurants, [Tree Story Bakery &
Cafe](https://www.facebook.com/TreeStoryCafe/) is a wonderland for pastry
lovers. Baskets of individually packaged sweet and savory breads fill the
shelves and tables near the entrance. More complex desserts like cakes and
mousses line glass cases at the counter. Park says she enjoys their Misugaru
drink for a quick meal. It's thick and undoubtedly wholesome. Those with a sweet
tooth may prefer the patbingsu, which ranges from chocolatey tiramisu to
traditional with red beans.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/cake-at-tree-story-cafe-duluth-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/cake-at-tree-story-cafe-duluth-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/cake-at-tree-story-cafe-duluth-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/cake-at-tree-story-cafe-duluth-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Cake at Tree Story Bakery & Cafe in Dultuh, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

### Jang Su Jang

This landmark Korean restaurant focuses on traditional dishes like tofu soup and
dumplings, each with plenty of _banchan_ alongside to heighten the experience.
The menu can be daunting with so many options. Order a family-style special,
assuming you have someone you can split with or don’t mind the leftovers, and
you're guaranteed a delicious dinner.

### Gop Chang on Fire

Suwanee is only 10 minutes farther up the road from Duluth, where Seoul of the
South hosts its tour and most Korean restaurants are located. It’s worth the
drive to try Gop Chang on Fire. If you can get past the shape of the specialty
dish at this barbecue restaurant, you can revel in a truly authentic Korean
experience: grilling offal, particularly intestines, or _gobchang_, on a tray
over hot coals in the center of the table. As always, it’s surrounded by
_banchan_ that keep on coming as long as you want.

### Harue

When you need KFC — Korean fried chicken —
[Harue](https://www.order.store/store/harue-doraville/cbGe7thqSf6pstAofJKW7g)
delivers. You'll be lucky to get a table during their lunchtime rush, but grab
one if you can and order a generous selection of squid and potato tempura and
their popular _tteok-bokki_, which has all the heartiness of a pasta dish. You
won't leave hungry.

## Cultural Notes

With so much selection, it's easy to get caught up in the flavors alone, but
K-Town engages all five senses. It’s the full experience: TVs streaming K-pop
while you eat, piles of striped _chamwae_ melons in the markets, snatches of
Korean conversation. This isn’t the kind of place you want to rush through. Take
your time. Browse the comics, _manhwa_, at World of Life Books. Party at a
Korean karaoke bar. Relax at a 24/7 Korean sauna.

And for those on tighter schedules? As you might expect, this culinary enclave
has its own food tour, but less expected is the generous helping of cultural
highlights included. Launched in 2015, [Seoul of the
South](https://www.exploregwinnett.org/seoul-of-the-south-food-tour/) covers
four restaurants in as many hours. They try to hit a variety: Korean barbecue,
fried chicken, something traditional, something sweet. There are only a handful
of tours during the summer, all of which fill up well in advance.

Park, who works as the confidential executive assistant to Gwinnett County's
commissioner in District One during the week, leads the Saturday outings,
dispensing bits of Korean history, dining tips and more from the front of the
trolley. She teaches fragments of Korean and warns everyone, "Pace yourselves."
It's _a lot_ of food. Everyone digs in around communal tables, an appropriately
Korean approach to mealtime.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/more-korean-food-gwinnett-county-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/more-korean-food-gwinnett-county-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/more-korean-food-gwinnett-county-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-southern-seoul-gwinnett-county-serves-up-korean-flavors-food-tour/more-korean-food-gwinnett-county-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Korean food in Gwinnett County, GA"
  width="665"
  height="458"
  loading="lazy"
/>

While no one quite masters Korean on the tour — though some fare better than
others at using chopsticks — Park says it's important to her to share Korean
culture and Korean food.

“Nothing really bridges cultures better than sharing a meal and experiencing the
foods that bring comfort to others,” she explains. “It is through this shared
experience that we can truly find what binds us together.”

Choi agrees. He calls it "the shared identity around Korean food." After all,
it’s what generations have grown up with, passed down in recipes and used as the
focal point for life’s celebrations and everyday family gatherings. There’s a
part of all that when you’re dining at a Korean restaurant, whether in Duluth or
Seoul.

“Growing up, sharing food items for dinner with multiple neighbors was a common
practice, and as children, we were the ones delivering food to the different
households," Choi recalls. "Korean restaurants help me to relive some of that
experience by bringing friends and family to enjoy all of the food together.
When I take people who are not familiar with or crave Korean food because they
do not usually try it, it’s like bringing them to my house or hometown to share
in the experience.”
