---
title: Things To Do in Virginia's Fairfax County
image: /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/fairfax-va.webp
featured: true
category: Virginia
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: Fairfax County, nestled in Virginia's lush countryside along the Potomac, offers historic landmarks, unique attractions, and vibrant art.
---

When it comes to location, Fairfax County has it made. It sits in lush Virginia
countryside along the Potomac River an hour east of Shenandoah National Park.
It's home to dozens of historic landmarks and minutes from the nation's capital,
yet you have room to spread out, plenty of free parking and budget-friendly
attractions.

Pick any city in the county and you'll find something unique, whether it's a
19th-century mill or a zoofari. You can spend your days at art galleries and
monuments. wind down the evening with live theater on the stage or live music at
one of the pubs.

There's so much to see and do. Here's what you can't miss when you visit Fairfax
County.

## Choose a home base

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/fairfax-marriott-at-fair-oaks-in-fairfax-va-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/fairfax-marriott-at-fair-oaks-in-fairfax-va-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/fairfax-marriott-at-fair-oaks-in-fairfax-va-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/fairfax-marriott-at-fair-oaks-in-fairfax-va-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Fairfax Marriott at Fair Oaks in Fairfax, VA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The county seat is the bustling city of Fairfax, a great spot for travelers
thanks to its central location. For a little luxury, stay at the [Fairfax
Marriott at Fair
Oaks](http://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/iadmc-fairfax-marriott-at-fair-oaks/).
The hotel is up-to-date and strikingly modern. They cater mostly to the
corporate set, so tourists can take advantage of better rates on the weekend and
often even lower prices around holidays. It's a short walk to the Fair Oaks Mall
and close to both I-66 and Route 50 so you can get around the region quickly.

Guest rooms are comfortable and spacious, many with private balconies available
at no extra charge. They come with a mini fridge and, if you ask for it, a
microwave, handy if you need a snack or quick meal. You can also visit the
on-site restaurant for locally sourced food.

## Mount Vernon

Northern Virginia is known for natural beauty. The county's most famous
attraction, [Mount Vernon](http://www.mountvernon.org/), is renowned not only
for the mansion George Washington once owned but also for its 18th century
landscaped grounds.

## Meadowlark Botanical Gardens

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/meadowlark-botanical-gardens-in-fairfax-va-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/meadowlark-botanical-gardens-in-fairfax-va-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/meadowlark-botanical-gardens-in-fairfax-va-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/meadowlark-botanical-gardens-in-fairfax-va-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Meadowlark Botanical Gardens in Fairfax, VA"
  width="665"
  height="445"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Flower lovers will enjoy [Meadowlark Botanical
Gardens](https://www.novaparks.com/parks/meadowlark-botanical-gardens). Covering
95 acres in Vienna, the gardens bloom in every season: peonies, tulips,
daylilies, crape myrtle and more. Pick up a map at the front desk so you don't
miss any of the themed gardens or architectural features like the restored log
cabin and Korean bell. If you go with kids, they'll love spotting the fairy
statues near the entrance.

## Great Falls Park

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/great-falls-park-in-fairfax-va-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/great-falls-park-in-fairfax-va-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/great-falls-park-in-fairfax-va-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/great-falls-park-in-fairfax-va-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Great Falls Park in Fairfax, VA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

A natural oasis of a different style, [Great Falls
Park](https://www.nps.gov/grfa/index.htm) lets you get close to the powerful
Potomac River. As water rushes through the gorge, it creates a series of
cascades just steps from the visitor center. The national park includes trails
for hikers, but tourists can visit all three overlooks in a matter of minutes.
Two of these are wheelchair accessible, and admission is just $10 per car. Fair
warning: On the weekend, it's popular, so go early.

## Chow down

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/bollywood-bistro-in-fairfax-va-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/bollywood-bistro-in-fairfax-va-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/bollywood-bistro-in-fairfax-va-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/bollywood-bistro-in-fairfax-va-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Bollywood Bistro in Fairfax, VA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

For dinner, stop by the Old Town Plaza in Fairfax. The plaza is a fun place to
walk and window shop as you decide which restaurant to visit. You can't go wrong
with the award-winning [Bollywood Bistro](http://bollywoodbistro.com/). They
serve inspired Indian food like date-filled naan and slow-cooked lamb biryani.
If you're vegetarian, there are nearly a dozen entrees with tempting ingredients
from potato croquettes to smoked eggplant. Flavors are fresh, and the prices are
reasonable.

## Escape game

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/room-escape-fairfax-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/room-escape-fairfax-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/room-escape-fairfax-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/room-escape-fairfax-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Room Escape Fairfax in Fairfax, VA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

For an extra thrill, sign up for an escape game. At [Room Escape
Fairfax](https://roomescapedc.com/), you and your team have 60 minutes to unravel
clues hidden around the room. The puzzles are clever and out-of-the-box, but it
makes the challenge that much better. Room Escape DC has six themes to choose
from. If you're feeling patriotic, Save the White House is an absolute blast and
can be completed with anywhere from two to 10 people.

## Discover DC

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/panda-at-the-national-zoo-fairfax-va-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/panda-at-the-national-zoo-fairfax-va-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/panda-at-the-national-zoo-fairfax-va-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/panda-at-the-national-zoo-fairfax-va-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Panda eating bamboo at the National Zoo in Fairfax, VA"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Save a day to head into DC. There's public transport from Fairfax County, or you
can drive. If you opt for driving, budget for parking fees. On the plus side,
several of DC's best attractions don't cost a dime. At the [National
Zoo](https://nationalzoo.si.edu/), you can hang with apes, alpacas, pandas and
sea lions, all for free. If you can, visit during meal times when the animals
are active. The keeper talks are also not to be missed.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/international-spy-museum-fairfax-va-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/international-spy-museum-fairfax-va-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/international-spy-museum-fairfax-va-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-12-things-to-do-in-virginias-fairfax-county/international-spy-museum-fairfax-va-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="International Spy Museum in Fairfax, VA"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

If you've done the DC tourist circuit already, don't worry â€” there's plenty
more. For an attraction much less crowded than the Smithsonian museums but still
of the same caliber, try the [International Spy
Museum](https://www.spymuseum.org/). Walk through the weird and hands-on history
of spycraft to encounter gadgets, plots, disguises and fascinating lore.
Featuring Bond memorabilia and even a simulated spy mission, it's great for all
ages and anyone who wants a glimpse into the secretive world of espionage.

## Plan Ahead

With so much to see, you can easily spend a week in the area, but make sure to
allow at least three days to hit the main sights.

If you drive into DC, allow extra time during rush hour, particularly on
weekdays.

Several museums in the county are free. Topics range from aviation and local
history to a workhouse prison and Civil War fort.

**Tip:** The visitor center in Tysons Corner gives you a free gift if you stop
by. They'll also share maps and advice for how to plan your stay.
