---
title: Discover Orlando Beyond the Theme Parks
image: /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/lake-eola-in-downtown-orlando-fl.webp
featured: true
category: Florida
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: This sunny Central Florida city offers more than roller coasters, water parks and mascots.
---

When you think of Orlando, roller coasters, water parks and a certain Mouse
spring to mind. But if you want to see a different side of the city, hang out
outside the theme parks. You’ll find a bustling arts and culture scene, creative
restaurants and a walkable downtown. Here’s what you can’t miss in the real
Orlando.

## Culture on a Dime

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/downtown-orlando-at-night-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/downtown-orlando-at-night-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/downtown-orlando-at-night-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/downtown-orlando-at-night-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Downtown Orlando at Night"
  width="665"
  height="443"
  loading="lazy"
/>

While a ticket to Universal Studios or Magic Kingdom can set you back upwards of
$100, you can tour more than a dozen museums in the Orlando area for a fraction
of the price. For a visual smorgasbord, try the [Orlando Museum of
Art](https://omart.org/) or the [Mennello Museum of American
Art](https://www.mennellomuseum.org/Home). Not into art? Opt for education fun
at the [Orlando Science Center](https://www.osc.org/) or a whirlwind tour of
Central Florida’s past at the [Orange County Regional History
Center](https://www.thehistorycenter.org/).

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/albin-polasek-museum-and-sculpture-gardens-in-winter-park-fl-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/albin-polasek-museum-and-sculpture-gardens-in-winter-park-fl-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/albin-polasek-museum-and-sculpture-gardens-in-winter-park-fl-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/albin-polasek-museum-and-sculpture-gardens-in-winter-park-fl-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Albin Polasek Museum & Sculpture Gardens in Winter Park, FL"                                                                                             width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

For more options, visit the surrounding cities. The [Albin Polasek Museum &
Sculpture Gardens](https://polasek.org/), for example, which celebrates the
works of this Czech sculptor, is an intriguing find just north of Orlando in
Winter Park. You can tour the artist’s studio, see rotating exhibits indoors and
bliss out in the backyard sculpture garden on Lake Osceola.

## Best Entertainment

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/sak-comedy-lab-downtown-orlando-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/sak-comedy-lab-downtown-orlando-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/sak-comedy-lab-downtown-orlando-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/sak-comedy-lab-downtown-orlando-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="SAK comedy lab in Downtown Orlando, FL"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>


Wrap up your day a live show. Choose from drama, dance, music, magic and more,
but if you’re looking for a true Orlando classic, get tickets to the [SAK Comedy
Lab](https://www.sakcomedylab.com/). Famous for helping launch the career of
Wayne Brady, this downtown improv troupe strikes the balance between “edgy and
different” and reliable, won’t-fail-you fun. They’ve been doing this for 30
years, winning awards and performing to packed audiences, so it’s a must while
you’re in town.

Luckily, there’s at least one show each night, from Duel of Fools, an epic
throwdown between two improv teams, to bargain-priced student showcases. Be
prepared for impromptu dance parties, flying Tootsie Rolls and top comedic
talent. Most of their shows are family-friendly (not family-friendly as in
geared toward children but as in you won’t have to cover your kids’ ears), which
makes for richer comedy and wilder leaps of imagination. You’ll leave laughing
and quoting zany lines performers made up on the spot. And you can go right back
the next night to see something new.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/sleeping-cat-at-orlando-cat-cafe-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/sleeping-cat-at-orlando-cat-cafe-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/sleeping-cat-at-orlando-cat-cafe-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/sleeping-cat-at-orlando-cat-cafe-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Sleeping cat at the Orlando Cat Cafe"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>


If all that audience participation leaves you craving more interactive
entertainment, that’s where Escapology comes in. Headquartered in Orlando and
the largest escape room company in the U.S.,
[Escapology](https://www.escapology.com/en/orlando-escape-rooms) has refined its
game experience. That means detailed set design, professional game masters and
clever, unusual clues that let you have fun whether or not you make it out in 60
minutes. They have seven rooms with themes you've probably not encountered
before, like escaping from a World War II submarine or trying to break a
Halloween curse in a churchyard. In the Budapest Express room, you're a
detective on a train where a murder has been committed and you must find
whodunit. Want a tip to beating this highly immersive room? Think like a sleuth
as you consider your suspects. It’s your only hope of cracking the case.

Escapology is off International Drive near SeaWorld and Aquatica. If you venture
a little further west, past Animal Kingdom, you’ll find a more laidback
entertainment venue at the [Orlando Cat Cafe](https://www.orlandocatcafe.com/).
For a nominal fee, you can enter the feline hangout, stocked with comfortable
seats (for humans) and climbing trees and hidey holes (for cats). You can pet
and play with them or just admire the way they lounge with absolute abandon.

## Where To Eat in Orlando

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/pastries-donuts-buttermilk-bakery-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/pastries-donuts-buttermilk-bakery-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/pastries-donuts-buttermilk-bakery-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/pastries-donuts-buttermilk-bakery-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Pastries and doughnuts from the Buttermilk Baker in Orlando, FL"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>


Wake up with coffee. And pastries. The fast-moving line at [Buttermilk
Bakery](https://www.buttermilk-bakery.com/) lets you know you've come to the
right place. A favorite with locals, this bakery serves up sweet and savory
confections to make you swoon: danishes, doughnuts, muffins, croissants, scones,
tarts. Experiment with unexpected flavors like brie, honeycomb and passion
fruit. The sheer variety makes it hard to choose, but you're on vacation, so you
have permission to order at least three.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/shrimp-bowl-and-dip-east-end-market-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/shrimp-bowl-and-dip-east-end-market-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/shrimp-bowl-and-dip-east-end-market-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-09-discover-orlando-beyond-the-theme-park/shrimp-bowl-and-dip-east-end-market-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Shrimp bowl and dip at the East End Market in Orlando, FL"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

For lunch or dinner, if you're looking for something hyper local and affordable,
[East End Market](https://eastendmkt.com/) has you covered. Think artisan food
in a casual, hip setting. No place sums this up quite like Bird of Paradise. No
more ordering “just a salad” when you want to eat healthy. Their bowls are
stuffed with hearty, fresh ingredients, so you feel good eating but don’t leave
hungry. The shrimp, sourced right off the Florida coast, is plentiful, and the
brown rice, from Jacksonville, is creamy. It plumps up wonderfully with the
absorbed sauces — like cilantro lemongrass in their bestseller Florida Bowl or
the pineapple-sweet meets Caribbean spice of the Island Jerk Bowl.

As a bonus, they’re fully gluten-free and low sugar, too, so it’s OK to splurge
on dessert at one of the other food stalls in the market. It’ll likely be one of
the most unique places you’ll eat this year.

If you can, make sure your visit to Orlando includes a Sunday for the year-round
farmer's market at Lake Eola Park. Along with browsing dozens of vendors for
snacks and souvenirs, you can enjoy live music, free street parking, scenic
views of the Lake Eola fountain and even a beer and wine garden. With the
rainbow-hued bandshell in the background, this is a perfect place to wind down
your stay in Orlando, a vibrant city just waiting your discovery.
