---
title: In Door County, Wisconsin, Winter Holds Unexpected Charms for Nature Lovers
image: /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/snow-covered-trees-in-door-county-wi.webp
featured: true
category: Wisconsin
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: A winter retreat with Swedish Julbord, wooden churches, and rocky, snow-covered beaches.
---

I almost missed it. A predawn excursion is all the harder when the weather's
cold and the previous night's revelry — in my case, a Scandinavian banquet with
drinking songs at [Al Johnson's Swedish Restaurant & Butik](aljohnsons.com) —
has kept you up rather later than usual. Their annual Swedish Julbord in
December was a feast of herring, lox, potato sausage, cheeses, and "julskinka,"
the Swedish Christmas ham, all washed down with glögg, a spiced blend of wine,
fruit, and almonds fortified with Swedish vodka. The goats on the roof may be
replaced with lighted reindeer in winter, but the food steals the show.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/swedish-julbord-at-al-johnsons-swedish-restaurant-butik-door-county-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/swedish-julbord-at-al-johnsons-swedish-restaurant-butik-door-county-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/swedish-julbord-at-al-johnsons-swedish-restaurant-butik-door-county-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/swedish-julbord-at-al-johnsons-swedish-restaurant-butik-door-county-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Swedish Julbord at Al Johnson's Swedish Restaurant & Butik in Door County, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

But I prevailed. Slipping away from the comfort of my bayside inn, I reach the
eastern-facing Cave Point County Park just in time to see the early morning
darkness recede before a blushing sky. Waves from Lake Michigan batter the shore
where icicles cling to dolomite cliffs carved with sea caves, hidden depths for
kayakers and divers to explore. Some of the water escapes through blowholes,
erupting in the air like a geyser. I get too close for a photo and get doused,
but I don't care. I have the place to myself, and it's glorious, the perfect
culmination to my trip to Door County.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/waves-from-lake-michigan-batter-the-shore-at-cave-point-county-park-in-door-county-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/waves-from-lake-michigan-batter-the-shore-at-cave-point-county-park-in-door-county-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/waves-from-lake-michigan-batter-the-shore-at-cave-point-county-park-in-door-county-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/waves-from-lake-michigan-batter-the-shore-at-cave-point-county-park-in-door-county-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Waves from Lake Michigan batter the share at Cave Point County Park in Door County, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

I'd spent the previous two days on the Wisconsin peninsula tramping through some
of the state's most idyllic winter landscapes, punctuated by festive holiday
events. Better known as a summertime retreat, Door County's double-sided
shoreline draws sunbathers and surfers June through August when the weather
peaks into a pleasant mid-70s. It's sometimes called the Cape Cod of the
Midwest, with the beaches, lighthouses, and seafood shacks to prove it. But I
like it this way, uncrowded, quiet, pristine after the fresh snowfall that
arrived my first night, right on cue.

## Hiking in a Winter Wonderland

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/snow-covered-wood-and-river-door-county-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/snow-covered-wood-and-river-door-county-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/snow-covered-wood-and-river-door-county-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/snow-covered-wood-and-river-door-county-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Snow-covered wood and river at Whitefish Dunes State Park in Door County, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

My introduction to Door County's scenic off-season begins at Whitefish Dunes
State Park. The beachfront park turns snowy November through March when you can
trade in your swimsuit for snowshoes — though when I visit early December, I'm
told it's not quite deep enough yet for snowshoes. I'm disappointed at first but
only briefly. Once inside the park, I'm surrounded by the postcard panoramas I
was hoping for: towering hardwoods like oak, beech, and maples intermixed with
evergreens, all comfortably blanketed in white.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/boynton-chapel-norwegian-stavkirke-at-björklunden-in-door-county-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/boynton-chapel-norwegian-stavkirke-at-björklunden-in-door-county-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/boynton-chapel-norwegian-stavkirke-at-björklunden-in-door-county-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/boynton-chapel-norwegian-stavkirke-at-björklunden-in-door-county-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Boynton Chapel, a stavkirke in the Björklunden, in Door County, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

I begin on the Yellow Trail, branching off to head down to the creek. It's slow
going, not because of the terrain, which is fairly flat, but because I stop
every few minutes to snap another photo. For those who like to move faster,
there are three cross-country skiing trails, the longest over four miles. Ice
fishing, another favorite winter pastime, is possible at Clark Lake. The park
even has a program to loan out fishing poles and tackle, free of charge.

I stick to hiking, finishing up the loop before heading north to an outdoor
escape of a different kind. Björklunden — meaning "Birch Grove" in Swedish — is
the northern campus of Lawrence University, a venue for educational seminars.
The tranquil setting seems well-suited to contemplation. And if the landscape
isn't as dramatic as Whitefish Dunes, Björklunden has something the state park
doesn't: a replica 12th-century Norwegian stavkirke.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/scandinavian-engraved-pews-at-boynton-chapel-in-björklunden-door-county-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/scandinavian-engraved-pews-at-boynton-chapel-in-björklunden-door-county-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/scandinavian-engraved-pews-at-boynton-chapel-in-björklunden-door-county-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/scandinavian-engraved-pews-at-boynton-chapel-in-björklunden-door-county-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Scandinavian engraved pews at Boynton Chapel in Björklunden, Door County, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

This is what I came for. Following a short trail from the lodge, I arrive at a
small clearing to find Boynton Chapel, looking every bit the fairy tale with its
dark exterior and woodland backdrop. Blue-toned stained glass glimmers in the
windows. The scalloped eaves end in dragon heads, there to ward off evil. It's
one of two stavkirkes in the county. The second, on Washington Island in the far
north, is another reproduction, built to honor the area's early Scandinavian
immigrants.

If I want to venture farther, I'll need skis or snowshoes. While the other
trails are open, they're ungroomed in winter. But evening comes early, and I
want to make the most of daylight. I still have one final stop on the other side
of Baileys Harbor.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/frozen-shallows-harbor-door-county-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/frozen-shallows-harbor-door-county-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/frozen-shallows-harbor-door-county-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/frozen-shallows-harbor-door-county-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Frozen shallows in the harbor at Door County, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

At 1,600 acres, The Ridges Sanctuary outdoes the others in sheer scale — it's
nearly twice the size of Whitefish Dunes, four times that of Björklunden. Miles
of trails wind among hearty conifers that form a boreal forest rare for this
latitude. White spruce and balsam fir flourish, even irises and orchids in
warmer months. A naturalist tells me the birdsong is hard to ignore in spring.

But now, all is still, a silence echoed in the stark architecture of the trees
and frozen swales. I hike to the end of my chosen trail, where two 19th-century
range lights stand sentinel at opposite ends of a long path. The lighthouses,
which once helped sailors avoid the harbor's dangerous shallows, are picturesque
today, the boardwalk to reach them uncluttered by footprints in the snow.

## Holiday Cheer in Door County

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/merry-time-festival-of-trees-at-the-door-county-maritime-museum-in-sturgeon-bay-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/merry-time-festival-of-trees-at-the-door-county-maritime-museum-in-sturgeon-bay-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/merry-time-festival-of-trees-at-the-door-county-maritime-museum-in-sturgeon-bay-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/merry-time-festival-of-trees-at-the-door-county-maritime-museum-in-sturgeon-bay-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Merry-Time Festival of Trees at the Door County Maritime Museum in Sturgeon Bay, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The winter beauty is only part of the appeal. Door County shines with festive
events that warm the season. At the Door County Maritime Museum in Sturgeon Bay,
the [Merry-Time Festival of Trees](http://www.dcmm.org/) runs from November
through mid-December, filling the space with dozens of elaborately decorated
Christmas trees. Alongside exhibits on shipwrecks, lighthouses, and Great Lakes
nautical history, a 101-year-old red tugboat out front glows with white lights.

In Ephraim, [Christmas in the Village](https://ephraim-doorcounty.com/) offers a
daylong celebration with caroling, carriage rides, a tree lighting, and a visit
from Saint Nick. The village's Norwegian heritage shines through old-fashioned
games and Moravian holiday displays. Meanwhile, in Fish Creek, the Progressive
Holiday Dinners on select weekends in December and January pair a stay at the
historic [Thorp House Inn](https://thorphouseinn.com/) and [White Gull
Inn](https://www.whitegullinn.com/) with a five-course feast. The evening starts
with hors d'oeuvres and live music, followed by a horse-drawn wagon ride to the
White Gull, elegantly trimmed for the season with guided tours before dinner.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/assorted-cakes-in-door-county-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/assorted-cakes-in-door-county-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/assorted-cakes-in-door-county-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/assorted-cakes-in-door-county-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Assorted cakes in Door County, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

For holiday shopping, the [Tannenbaum Holiday
Shop](https://www.tannenbaumholidayshop.com/) in a 19th-century church sells
everything from nutcrackers and Nativity scenes to snow globes and themed
trees—think music, marine life, or even upside-down firs that save space and
highlight ornaments. It's a treasure trove of design inspiration.

I wish I could stay longer, but it's time to wind down (in true Wisconsin style,
with a fish boil at a Victorian B&B). I'll need to rest up for tomorrow when I
tackle the western shore, including the county's largest preserve, Peninsula
State Park, prized for its snowmobile trails overlooking Green Bay.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/christmas-tree-in-door-county-wi-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/christmas-tree-in-door-county-wi-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/christmas-tree-in-door-county-wi-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-10-door-county-wi-holds-unexpected-charms-for-nature-lovers/christmas-tree-in-door-county-wi-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Christmas Tree in Door County, WI"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

I take one last look at the range lights, one last photo to capture the memory —
winter beauty, after all, is evanescent — and retrace my steps toward the
trailhead.
