---
title: "Visiting Forsyth: From a Fox ‘Hunt’ to Fried Green Tomatoes"
image: /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/victorian-brick-courthouse-in-forsyth-ga.webp
featured: true
category: Georgia
layout: post
author: Cheryl Rodewig
excerpt: A postcard-perfect downtown with secret art and a Victorian courthouse.
last-updated: 2025-04-08
---

In Forsyth’s postcard-perfect downtown, a striking brick Victorian courthouse
presides over the square. It’s surrounded by a broad lawn, mature trees and
dozens of buildings on the National Register of Historic Places, many repurposed
as boutiques or restaurants.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/national-register-of-historic-places-forsyth-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/national-register-of-historic-places-forsyth-ga-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/national-register-of-historic-places-forsyth-ga-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/national-register-of-historic-places-forsyth-ga-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="National Register of
  Historic Places plaque in Forsyth, GA" width="665" height="499" loading="lazy"
  />

This scene alone makes the stop along I-75 between Atlanta and Macon worth it,
but there’s much more to discover. Monroe County, which just celebrated its
bicentennial anniversary, has taken pains to preserve its storied past, and I
uncovered glimpses of yesteryear almost everywhere on my recent visit.

Learn how it all started at the [Monroe County Historical Society Museum and
Archives](https://www.mchsga.org), housed inside an 1899 train depot. Forsyth
was home to Georgia’s first railroad, and you can spot a second depot in town,
this one dating to the 1850s, just down the street from the museum.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/monroe-county-historical-society-museum-and-archives-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/monroe-county-historical-society-museum-and-archives-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/monroe-county-historical-society-museum-and-archives-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/monroe-county-historical-society-museum-and-archives-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Monroe County Historical
  Society Museum and Archives" width="665" height="499" loading="lazy" />

Farther afield at [Jarrell Plantation State Historic
Site](https://gastateparks.org/JarrellPlantation), step back in time to an
antebellum cotton plantation. It boasts a steam-powered cotton gin and 1870s log
smokehouse, among other relics.

In the 20th century, the county's economy invariably shifted from agriculture to
manufacturing. You can ponder the march of progress as you swim, boat or picnic
at the 3,600-acre Lake Juliette, maintained by Georgia Power, which operates a
plant nearby.

Even a stroll through a modern neighborhood reveals layers of history. Check out
Indian Springs Drive, walking distance from the square, for its architectural
variety: Gothic, neoclassical, Mediterranean, Italianate and more. A Victorian
textile mill towers at one end of the street.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/downtown-forsyth-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/downtown-forsyth-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/downtown-forsyth-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/downtown-forsyth-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Downtown Forsyth, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

If you want to see and do it all, you’ll need more than an afternoon. Staying in
Forsyth, you’ll be central to the main attractions. There's a KOA campground as
well as several chain hotels. I can vouch for the La Quinta Inn & Suites, which
offers free breakfast and quick access to downtown and the interstate.

Depending on how long you have, you can cram everything into a long weekend or
spend a few extra days taking things at a slower pace. Here’s a peek at what’s
in store when you visit Monroe County.

## Downtown Forsyth

Start your journey in downtown Forsyth. If it’s a weekday, head inside the
courthouse to see the restored courtroom with its decorative pressed tin
ceiling. Then hit the streets for a self-guided tour.

Your walk is naturally better with ice cream, so stop into
[Scoops](https://www.scoopsicecream.com/forsyth) first. This sweets shop is
packed with novelty candy from decades ago along with all your favorite frozen
treats. Grab a sundae or a cone — butter pecan and salted caramel truffle are
popular — and start exploring.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/national-register-of-historic-places-forsyth-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/national-register-of-historic-places-forsyth-ga-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/national-register-of-historic-places-forsyth-ga-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/national-register-of-historic-places-forsyth-ga-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="A super-sized cone at
  Scoops in downtown Forsyth, GA" width="665" height="499" loading="lazy" />

There's a fox hunt with clues that leads you all over downtown in search of
miniature bronze foxes. Why foxes? It’s a throwback to Forsyth's former
nickname, “Fox City.” As the story goes, the town earned the moniker due to the
charms of the students of Tift College, the second oldest women's college in
Georgia. It’s a fun but challenging scavenger hunt (I admit I was stumped on a
few clues), and you’ll get to know some of the city’s landmarks along the way.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/hidden-fox-in-forsyth-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/hidden-fox-in-forsyth-ga-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/hidden-fox-in-forsyth-ga-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/hidden-fox-in-forsyth-ga-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Hidden Fox in Forsyth, GA"
  width="665" height="499" loading="lazy" />

Pick up an African American Heritage Guide & Tour booklet at the welcome center
for more historic sites to visit as well as biographies and a timeline to give
context to the people and places you’ll learn about.

Other must-see stops downtown include the City of Forsyth train mural, St.
Luke’s African American Episcopal Church, the historic Rose Theater, where you
can catch a live show, and the [1823 Artisan Guild &
Gallery](https://www.facebook.com/artinforsythga), where you can shop handmade
treasures and take art classes like basket weaving. (Fun fact: The guild's name
is a nod to the year Forsyth was founded.) You can enjoy even more local art if
you visit in March during the annual Forsythia Festival. (Its name actually
isn't from the city at all, but from the yellow flower that blooms every
spring.)

## Farm Life in Monroe County

Agritourism is thriving in Monroe County today. There's nearly always something
in season, beginning with strawberries in the spring through pecans and pumpkins
in the fall.

Take your pick from the produce at [Dickey Farms](https://gapeaches.com/). If
it’s peach season, tour the packinghouse. Then stop by [Hamlin Hills
Farms](https://hamlinhills.com) to see the antique trucks and tractors on
display, pet the farm animals, browse the country store, and perhaps dare the
haunted corn maze if the season's right. Whenever you go, be sure to fill up
your camera roll with old-timey Coca-Cola signs and unusual sights like the
state’s cleanest outhouse (they say) and a 17-passenger helicopter you can climb
inside.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/old-timey-cocacola-signs-at-hamlin-hills-farms-in-forsyth-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/old-timey-cocacola-signs-at-hamlin-hills-farms-in-forsyth-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/old-timey-cocacola-signs-at-hamlin-hills-farms-in-forsyth-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/old-timey-cocacola-signs-at-hamlin-hills-farms-in-forsyth-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Old-timey Coca-Cola signs at Hamlin Hills Farms in Forsyth, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Of course, you don't have to leave town for farm-fresh flavors. On Fridays from
May through September, swing by the farmers market downtown to stock up on
locally grown and crafted products.

## Waterfall Watching

If you're not expecting waterfalls outside North Georgia, [High Falls State
Park](https://gastateparks.org/HighFalls) is something of a surprise. The broad,
multi-tiered cascade tumbling down the Towaliga River holds its own against the
glories of the Blue Ridge foothills. It's the largest waterfall south of
Atlanta.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/towaliga-river-in-juliette-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/towaliga-river-in-juliette-ga-320.webp
          320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/towaliga-river-in-juliette-ga-480.webp
  480w,
  /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/towaliga-river-in-juliette-ga-665.webp
  665w" sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px" alt="Towaliga River in Juliette,
  GA" width="665" height="499" loading="lazy" />


There's an accessible platform so everyone can enjoy the falls plus plenty of
opportunities for hiking, geocaching and bass fishing.

Despite its Jackson address, the park is located in the northwest corner of
Monroe County. It was once a thriving industrial town, and you can still see
ruins of the hydroelectric plant, dating to the 1890s, on a half-mile trail.

## Fried Green Tomatoes

Monroe County has featured in a number of films: _Baby Driver_, _Anchorman 2_,
_Cockfighter_, and _Seven Little Johnstons_, to name a few. But it's the 1990s
drama _Fried Green Tomatoes_ that draws tourists from around the world.

You'll feel like you're stepping onto a movie set as you walk down McCracken
Street in Juliette. The storefronts are impossibly quaint. Antiques and
nostalgic bric-a-brac fill the front porches. Even the sheriff's substation,
petite and weathered, is undeniably Instagrammable.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/whistle-stop-cafe-in-juliette-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/whistle-stop-cafe-in-juliette-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/whistle-stop-cafe-in-juliette-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/whistle-stop-cafe-in-juliette-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Whistle Stop Café in Juliette, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

The [Whistle Stop Café](https://thewhistlestopcafe.com) at the end of the block
is your destination, both for its role in the film and its delicious cuisine.
The menu is thoroughly Southern: fried chicken livers, smoked ribs, catfish,
country fried steak and sides that range from cornbread to collards. Order an
appetizer of fried green tomatoes and you’ll understand why people rave about
them. These magical circles are piping hot with soft yellow centers covered in a
crispy, seasoned batter.

<img
  src="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/friend-green-tomatoes-at-the-whistle-stop-cafe-in-juliette-ga-665.webp"
  srcset="/assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/friend-green-tomatoes-at-the-whistle-stop-cafe-in-juliette-ga-320.webp 320w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/friend-green-tomatoes-at-the-whistle-stop-cafe-in-juliette-ga-480.webp 480w,
          /assets/img/2025-04-08-visiting-forsyth-from-a-fox-hunt-to-fried-green-tomatoes/friend-green-tomatoes-at-the-whistle-stop-cafe-in-juliette-ga-665.webp 665w"
  sizes="(max-width: 665px) 100vw, 665px"
  alt="Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Café in Juliette, GA"
  width="665"
  height="499"
  loading="lazy"
/>

Get there early to put your name on the list. This place is hopping. In the
movie, “the secret’s in the sauce,” but at The Whistle Stop Café today, the
secret is the locally sourced ingredients, time-honored recipes and creative
takes on classic dishes. Be sure to stay for dessert. The seasonal pecan-crusted
apple crisp tastes like fall, and the moist, seven-layer lemon cake is a
year-round treat worth savoring.

Want to go all out? Visit Juliette in October for the annual Green Tomato
Festival, featuring arts and crafts, live music, kids’ activities and plenty of
down-home cooking so you won’t leave hungry.
